# sktime CC meeting minutes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ)

**Date:** 
13/09/2022, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:**: Franz, Guzal, Martin

Minuting: Franz

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[governance / community council channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875425974345416734)

## Agenda

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions

    1. action GB: PR to add observers on team page

    2. engagement requests
        * action FK: reply to geekle
        * track answers

    5. action all: review governance docs on maintainership PR
        * proposal to clarify core dev activity/inactivity https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3154
        * proposal to clarify in maintenance docs process to contact algo authors https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3155
        * sktime algorithm library https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3155
            * "sktime algorithim library" PR reviewed by core dev Lovkush, merged
            * other two still open, to be looked at

    9. action FK: polls/announcements
        * on location of sktime (Turing, sktime, numfocus if option)
            * done, ongoing
        * message re CoC training
            * not done, todo (other messages, avoiding overload)

    10. track reimbursement: Katie, Mirae (to sktime)
        * Mirae -> sktime not applied yet, action FK

    11. track numfocus discussion
        * adjusted contract
        * sktime domain emails, redirect/hosting (MW)
        * track, maybe follow up

    12. MW: set up workstream on business model/monetization

3. fall dev sprint updates (Mirae)
    * see update in appendix

4. pydata global updates

5. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)
    * agreed

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions

    1. action GB: PR to add observers on team page
        * not done, track

    2. engagement requests
        * action FK: reply to geekle
        * track answers
            * not done, track

    3. action all: review governance docs on maintainership PR
        * proposal to clarify core dev activity/inactivity https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3154
        * proposal to clarify in maintenance docs process to contact algo authors https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3155
        * sktime algorithm library https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3155
            * not done, track

    4. action FK: polls/announcements
        * on location of sktime (Turing, sktime, numfocus if option)
            * done, ongoing
        * message re CoC training
            * not done, todo (other messages, avoiding overload)

    5. action FK: track reimbursement: Katie, Mirae (to sktime)
        * Mirae -> sktime not applied yet, action FK
            * have receipts from Mirae, will submit to numfocus

    6. track numfocus discussion
        * adjusted contract
        * sktime domain emails, redirect/hosting (MW)
        * track, maybe follow up
            * action FK: follow up

    7. MW: set up workstream on business model/monetization
        * done, first meet happens on Sep 15

3. fall dev sprint updates (Mirae)
    * see update in appendix
    * GB: should we ask numfocus for assist?
    * GB: badges and contributors page? reward could be badge
        * we should make the contributor page (with badges) more prominent
        * FK: auto-generation of the contributor page is broken
    * GB: reward could be merch or monetary
    * GB: should do more with recognition
    * MW: maybe look how other projects do it?
    * FK: current practice, in release notes (GitHub) put new contributors to the top! Nice contribs as "highlights"
    * action GB: explore options and make suggestion
    * action FK: reply to numfocus events thread, introduce Mirae to numfocus support

4. pydata global updates
    * submitted workshop proposal on pipelines, transformers
    * co-speakers: Mirae, Benedikt Heidrich (pywatts)

5. AOB
    * GB idea: should we maybe use GitHub for tracking actions?
        * all agreed (trial tentatively)
    * action MW: set up actions board on CC (kanban or variation)
        * demo as soon as ready!
        * community-org repo


## Appendix A - docsprint update (Mirae, from slack channel)

Update, from slack channel:

We will finalize the dates soon (within a week), current plan is Nov 9-10, please let me know if these dates don't work for you!
Once dates are finalized I will reach out to schedule talks/presentations from the community!  We will try to hold the majority of these talks from 10-12UTC.  We encourage all members of the sktime community, not just interns to present what you have been working on!

For presenters, we will be providing the option of recording the talks, and encourage you to consider either recording your talk or providing a blog/notebook to summarize and share your ideas in other public forums!

In addition to talks we will be hosting a friendly tutorial competition for all sktime community members!  More details, rules and prizes to be announced soon, but this is a good time to start thinking about what part of sktime could use some TLC (feel free to take this as an opportunity to build a notebook for your own personal estimator!).

Last but not least I would just like to encourage everyone to attend and participate to the degree you are able (ie it is not intended to be an all-or-nothing event).  Please don't hesitate to reach out either to me or to this channel if you have any questions or concerns about the event!
Help Wanted!

If you can help out with planning/prep, here are some pending todo's we will address in upcoming meetings that we would love help on!  Just comment in a thread to this if you are able/interested in any of these tasks.  Ideas/suggestions are of course always welcome as well!
Help with publicization would be appreciated.  Once we finalize the date we will design informational posters to be shared and publish this both to the sktime website, and to related social media accounts.
Decide + test the best meeting format (discord?  google meets?), and also setup a ticketing system for the event.
Brainstorm and collect some rules for the tutorial competition. 
Brainstorm a social event!  Collecting a list of ideas currently, lmk if you have any :wink:
Organizing all the speakers.

To tackle all this^ and more we will have another planning meeting next Thurs 4:30 - 5 UTC, if you are unable to make it please drop your comments and suggestions in a thread to this comment or on the HackMD.
