# sktime CC meeting notes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ)

**Date:** 
11/10/2022, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** 

Minuting: Guzal

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[governance / community council channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875425974345416734)

## Agenda

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions

    via project board https://github.com/orgs/sktime/projects/1

    from last time:
     - action CC: review google form
         - FK: we should watch out for GDPR and similar
         - numfocus can also advise on this
     - action CC: review poster and ads & material
         - optimally by tomorrow? Sep 28 EoB, then Mirae can action further

            optimally by tomorrow? Sep 28 EoB, then Mirae can action further

3. updates:
    * pydata global - notification of acceptance/rejection was Oct 4, but no email received
    * numfocus

4. standing item: fall dev sprint updates (Mirae Parker)

 - next sprint org meeting: discuss rules for doc sprint (e.g., awards or incentives; rewarding new contributors)

5. collaboration case indexhub/OrcaBase (Christopher Lo)

6. AOB


## Notes


1. Review notes from prev meeting (https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)

    * agreed

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions

    via project board https://github.com/orgs/sktime/projects/1

    from last time:
     - action CC: review google form
         - FK: we should watch out for GDPR and similar
         - numfocus can also advise on this
     - action CC: review poster and ads & material
         - optimally by tomorrow? Sep 28 EoB, then Mirae can action further

            optimally by tomorrow? Sep 28 EoB, then Mirae can action further

3. updates:
    * pydata global - notification of acceptance/rejection was Oct 4, but no email received
    * numfocus
        * form tentatively submitted, change deadline Oct 16th
        * FK: they're askting for 5 potential signatories (names of people who could sign the incorporation and assosiation contract), LA and FK have confirmed
        * MW, GB, LT, LM agree (conditional on reviewing contract and being happy with it)
        * action MW: share with core-devs, should vote on it

4. standing item: fall dev sprint updates (Mirae Parker)

 - next sprint org meeting: discuss rules for doc sprint (e.g., awards or incentives; rewarding new contributors)
* MP: getting info about the dev-days spread - any help with this appreciated
* MP: someone of who'd take care of an in-person meetup
    * CL: can help with hosting a WeWork in London
* MP: funding (any costs for in-person component: venue, food etc), + competition for the best tutorial notebook - encouragement in form of reimbursement
    * FK: NumFocus could help with that
    * MW: use some of the grant money for reimbursement
* action MP: formulate funding request and reach out to TB
* action MP: contact NumFocus on 

5. collaboration case indexhub/OrcaBase (Christopher Lo)

(presentation on indexhub capabilities)

action on Chris: produce written proposal of collaboration modes (and value propositions). audience = sktime CC, developer community & numfocus

6. AOB
