# sktime CC meeting notes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ)

**Date:** 
25/10/2022, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** Franz, Guzal, Leonidas, Martin, Mirae

Minuting: Martin

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[governance / community council channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875425974345416734)

## Agenda

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions

    via project board https://github.com/orgs/sktime/projects/1

    actions on dev days from last time:
    
    * MP - publicizing dev days, ongoing
    * MP - funding - communicating with Tony

3. updates:
    * pydata global - notification of acceptance/rejection was Oct 4, but no email received.
        * FK update: asked pydata, said it will be mid Oct. It is now end Oct and still no email...
    * numfocus

4. standing item: fall dev sprint updates (Mirae Parker)

 - next sprint org meeting: discuss rules for doc sprint (e.g., awards or incentives; rewarding new contributors)
 - London in-person meet

5. MW: Idea from Tony: Having a testimonial page on website with industry and science references of sktime users similar to this: https://scikit-learn.org/stable/testimonials/testimonials.html

6. FK: statsmodels and numba as soft dependencies?
    * update from discussions -> will have internal vote
    * tech feasibility

7. GB: responsibilities in the CC assignment
8. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)
    * agreed

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions

    via project board https://github.com/orgs/sktime/projects/1

    
    * MP - publicizing dev days, ongoing
    * MP - funding - communicating with Tony
        * ongoing - probably submitting reimbursement request
        * Guzal in contact with Tony regarding funding formalities
            * Mirae: did not see this
            * action: share email with Mirae


3. updates:
    * pydata global - notification of acceptance/rejection was Oct 4, but no email received.
        * FK update: asked pydata, said it will be mid Oct. It is now end Oct and still no email...
    * numfocus

4. standing item: fall dev sprint updates (Mirae Parker)

 - next sprint org meeting: discuss rules for doc sprint (e.g., awards or incentives; rewarding new contributors)
     - Mirae has produced rules document, will be shared
     - CC to review, MP to send
 - London in-person meet
     - leaning towards evening social, since some locals don't have all day
     - need reimbursement fronter for this, action GB ask Leo whether he can be that person

5. MW: Idea from Tony: Having a testimonial page on website with industry and science references of sktime users similar to this: https://scikit-learn.org/stable/testimonials/testimonials.html

Industry:
- Shell (Lovkush)
- GSK (Leo)
- NordSec (NordVPN): (MW)
- BASF (MW)
- Mercedes-Benz (Daniel)
- todo: ask in Slack for more references

community members of whom we know use sktime in commercial work
- Beth
- Chris


Science:
- Ask Tony about scientific users
- KIT (Benedikt Heidrich)


FK: we can look at reverse dependencies in scientific institutions


6. FK: statsmodels and numba as soft dependencies?
    * update from discussions -> will have internal vote
    * tech feasibility

7. GB: responsibilities in the CC assignment
    - option a - rotate
    - option b - divide the responsibility areas

9. AOB

