# sktime CC meeting notes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ)

**Date:** 
28/06/2022, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:**: Franz Kiraly, Martin Walter

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[governance / community council channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875425974345416734)

## Agenda

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)

            * 
2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions
    1. action: sktime domain emails - track
        * TB no longer active - what is status and next steps?
    3. action TB to change URL for readthedocs and MW to investigate - track
        * action MW: we can still see ads, need to contact them to take them down. Are we paying?
    5. action FK: write email with list to Arliss. action FK chase, write again.
        * written, no reply or other reaction. What to do now?
        * FK action: contact generic point of contact
    8. action TB on budget
        * TB has dropped off, treasurer role is vacant
        * what next? treasurer role, budget management?

3. summer programme org updates: dev sprint

4. debrief pydata London

5. FK: observer roles - put on "team" page?

6. sktime engagement queries:
    * Slai http://slai.io/
    * geekle (pygeekle) https://geekle.us/

7. roll-over items, from ages ago:
    * FK: special roles for contributors
    * Patrick - KNIME

8. AOB

## Notes


1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)


2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions
    1. action: sktime domain emails - track
        * TB no longer active - what is status and next steps?
        * @sktime emails set up by TB
        * revisit sktime domain, possibly with numfocus
    3. action TB to change URL for readthedocs and MW to investigate - track
        * action MW: we can still see ads, need to contact them to take them down. Are we paying?
        * no answer yet, track
    5. action FK: write email with list to Arliss. action FK chase, write again.
        * written, no reply or other reaction. What to do now?
        * FK action: contact generic point of contact
            * talked to numfocus at pydata London, but still waiting for connect
            * track

    8. action TB on budget
        * TB has dropped off, treasurer role is vacant
        * what next? treasurer role, budget management?
            * FK / MW administer budget for now
            * case by case until more permanent solution found

3. summer programme org updates: dev sprint
    * venue, enough funding for venue and catering
    * ca 10 in-person attendances
    * number of expressions of interest of presentations
    * Guzal sent out form to participants to confirm attendance, requirements, etc
    * By July 1, need to pass on list of attendees to UCL
    * FK needs to make sure that digital/virtual setup works, preferably before july 11

4. debrief pydata London
    * well attended
    * met numfocus C-level (promised to come back with email)
    * will be published soon on youtube

5. FK: observer roles - put on "team" page?
    * MW: maybe ask them first
    * FK: agreed
    * MW: (a) listing at all, as category (b) if yes, to be listed per individual yes/no
    * action FK: listing question

6. sktime engagement queries:
    * geekle (pygeekle) https://geekle.us/
        * asking for us to present
        * MW: thinly stretched, better focus on pydata, scipy etc
        * suggestion: leave it
        * decided
        * action FK to reply
    * Slai http://slai.io/
        * put link on README (sth like binder), in return for donations
        * decision: donÂ´t do this
        * can list as sponsors if fund, can link
        * action MW: reply

7. roll-over items, from ages ago:
    * FK: special roles for contributors
        * no roles created, would complicate
        * going with different process for algorithm contributors: core devs should ping them
        * closed
        * action FK: proposal to clarify in maintenance docs process to contact algo authors
    * Patrick - KNIME
        * patrick should present this, he should attend next CC meeting
        * action FK: invite patrick to next CC meeting

8. AOB


## Appendix A - special roles for contributors proposal (from Franz)

by FK for discussion, possibly decision

I have seen situations where it would be useful to give non-core-devs elevated access rights to the repo, or a right to review.
I would propose to discuss these and introduce additional roles.

Situation 1: owner of a contributed algorithm or interface

In this case, our rules say the person should be notified if PR is made to their algorithm, and they should be able to review and possibly approve changes to their algorithm (in compliance with sktime rules and interface specifications). Currently, we maintain a CODEOWNERS file for this.
However, the PR notifications and review permissions only work if the user has write access.
Examples: statsforecast, multirocket, augmenters, hcrystalball

Situation 2: "allied" library core devs

Direct dependencies or reverse dependencies may be very active in reporting and reviewing contributions around the relevant dependency interface points. They tend to make PR or review PR with a quick turnaround, especially around the times where we or they move to a new version. Such contributors do not have the capacity to take on full responsibilities of an sktime core dev (because they are already core dev of an allied package), but they - and sktime - may benefit from them acting as core devs around the direct interface points, e.g., having the power to review and approve PR of core devs, push directly to the sktime repo, or getting notifications via CODEOWNERS.
Examples: pycaret, statsforecast, pywatts, tsfresh

for situation 1, we already have a role - algorithm maintainer. We may have to specify how this translates into access rights to the repo.
For situation 2, we could introduce the role of allied or affiliated core dev.


## Appendix B - KNIME (from Patrick)

from Patrick: Potential Cooperation with KNIME (https://www.knime.com)
* KNIME is a software to create and productionize data science using one easy and intuitive environment
* KNIME is currently working on python M/L functionality 
* We might cooperate with KNIME on integrating sktime their software by adapters
* Advatanges: increase visibility of sktime - integrate into an easy to use GUI with a large (commercial) customer base, might be part of some hackathon? Other options (thought og pydata initially)?
* Disadvantages: KNIME is partially commercial, but distribtues its software open source (GNU)
