# sktime CC meeting notes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ)

**Date:** 
02/08/2022, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:**: Arliss Collins, Leah Silen, Franz, Martin, Guzal

Minuting: Franz, Guzal, Martin

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[governance / community council channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875425974345416734)

## Agenda

1. NumFOCUS - Leah Silen, Arliss Collins
   
   discussion points:
   * any points from NumFOCUS
   * updates on sktime
   * co-branding, location of sktime
   * sponsored status, fiscal situation
   * code of conduct committee
   * next steps - e.g., list sent to Arliss

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions
    1. action: sktime domain emails - track
        * should talk to numfocus, so this is done, but track numfocus contact (include domain hosting as discussion pt)
        * action MW: investigate how we can redirect and get redirect hosting (cost, technical process)
    2. action FK: try to establish contact with NumFOCUS
        * action FK: try other channels (slack, linkedin, other people at numfocus)
    3. action FK: ask observers on reporting of roles
        * action GB: ask again in CC channel for consent, then PR only those who have voiced consent into governance doc (list of CC members)
    4. engagement requests
        * action MW: reply to slai
        * action FK: reply to geekle
        * track answers
    5. action FK: governance docs on maintainership
        * proposal to clarify core dev activity/inactivity
        * proposal to clarify in maintenance docs process to contact algo authors
    6. action GB: governance docs on reimbursement
    7. action FK: poll on location of sktime (Turing, sktime, numfocus if option)

4. dev days
    * reimbursements
    * participant feedback (GB)

5. Code of conduct committee next steps

5. doc sprint

6. GSoC midterm

7. FK: sktime/baseobject

8. AOB


## Notes

1. NumFOCUS - Leah Silen, Arliss Collins
   
   discussion points:
   * any points from NumFOCUS
   * updates on sktime
   * co-branding, location of sktime
       * tags shared and PR
       * standard practice is separate project repo or project org
       * sponsored status would imply requirement of own org (not Turing, company, etc)
       * recommend independence even for affiliated projects, because ensures openness
   * sponsored status, fiscal situation
       * 2 types: grantor-grantee, comprehensive
       * application process is same, with one exception. [Link here](https://numfocus.typeform.com/to/VUPE35)
       * [grantor-grantee](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aGG-Yd76NJ8w-jlgG8e-Kx6C51bURVOrv8JuLEn53qk/edit?usp=sharing): includes grant proposal. Can be with grant to apply, or grant received
       * could be moving funds of UKRI grant to NumFOCUS, depends on T&C
       * comprehensive model: admin fees 15% on funds received/donated (10% for individual donations)
       * would be possible to hire people via numfocus
       * legal assets & liabilities - can help with that (they take all of that)
       * numfocus are able to apply for trademark in any country, under "comprehensive" but do not control technical / creative direction of sktime
       * may step in if project needs support
       * MW: if in 5 years cc makes decision to make our own foundation - is it possible?
       * Leah: the agreement can be terminated, but the grants that sktime has by that moment - we'd need to create our own entity, because moving funds from a non-profit to corporate/individual is impossible, need to have an org, this is backed up by contractual closes
   * code of conduct committee
       * if a project has a member of CoC involved in some kind of conflict then numfocus can step up
       * nf can help with trainings of the enforcement team - highly recommend
       * they don't see any problem with having a CoC setup the same way we've had now
       * could try to help us with an issue we might have during transition period
       * entry point would be NumFOCUS CoC reporting button (preventative/fallback)
   * next steps - e.g., list sent to Arliss
        * continue discussion Aug 16


actions:
    * ask for comprehensive model docs
    * all look at sponsored project affiliation
    * later: table for decision
    * FK summarize actions to Arliss
        * comprehensive specs
        * reimbursement
        * CoC training


1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/tree/main/community_council/previous_meetings)
    * agreed

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions
    1. action: sktime domain emails - track
        * should talk to numfocus, so this is done, but track numfocus contact (include domain hosting as discussion pt)
        * action MW: investigate how we can redirect and get redirect hosting (cost, technical process)
            * ongoing
    2. action FK: try to establish contact with NumFOCUS
        * action FK: try other channels (slack, linkedin, other people at numfocus)
            * done
            * track Aug 16
    3. action FK: ask observers on reporting of roles
        * action GB: ask again in CC channel for consent, then PR only those who have voiced consent into governance doc (list of CC members)
            * asked, all three agreed, haven't made the PR
            * todo
    4. engagement requests
        * action MW: reply to slai
            * no answer
            * donÂ´t track anymore
        * action FK: reply to geekle
            * not done
        * track answers
    5. action FK: governance docs on maintainership
        * proposal to clarify core dev activity/inactivity
        * proposal to clarify in maintenance docs process to contact algo authors
            * done, for review
            * https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3154
            * https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime/pull/3155
            * action: review
            * track
    6. action GB: governance docs on reimbursement
        * made an [issue](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/25 ) 
        * ongoing
    8. action FK: poll on location of sktime (Turing, sktime, numfocus if option)
        * not done
        * will do, track

4. dev days
    * reimbursements
        * already told Mirae to reimburse via UCL before we heard from NumFOCUS - may have to counter-reimburse?
        * told Katie to reimburse from OC
        * action: need to reimburse to NumFOCUS, email to Arliss
        * action FK: stop UCL reimbursement
        * action FK: send email to Arliss, ask to send reimbursement instructions (also include sponsored comprehensive model docs)
    * participant feedback (GB)
        * only one person replied

5. Code of conduct committee next steps
    * temp point to numfocus
    * ask for volunteers

out of time, defer to next meeting

5. doc sprint

6. GSoC midterm

7. FK: sktime/baseobject

8. AOB
