
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-12-05

**Date:** 
05/12/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, UO, KR

**Minuting:** FK

**Moderator:** FK


## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication vote
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action MR: put this up for voting, write final form


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)

4. Elections
    * timelines, feedback
    * reminder

5. Conference planning update
    * pydata NY debrief
    * pydata global

7. MR: brainstorm community events?

8. FK: JB treasurer check-in?
    * 2023 statements
    * fundraising
    * 2024 projections (if any)

10. AOB


## Minutes


1. Review of agenda

* shortened where relevant people not in attendance
* FK: some points copied over by accident, updated

2. Review of minutes

* FK suggest, push until majority attends
* agreed


3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication vote
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action MR: put this up for voting, write final 
        * this is now up, https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1173921014284025886/
        * at usual timelines, open until Dec 12


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
        * done by UO, PR is now open for review by others

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
        * shared, and also sent
        * track for response

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)

4. Elections
    * timelines, feedback
        * MR put feedback in writing on branch of private repo (not present)
        * Kiril: agrees with moving or extending timelines to Jan due to holidays
            * strong opinion
            * also with MR specific timeline
        * FK also agrees (see discord)
        * Ugo - also agrees with MR proposed timeline
        * FK - will then redraft and propose updated timeline given current material
        * FK: any feedback on content, material, other than timeline?
            * KR: no
            * UO: suggest more clarifications on which council positions (length of tenure) in different groups
        * action FK - update material, reshare, check confirmations for plan
    * reminder to all, any further comments in repo
        * agreed on updated timeline
        * no major comments regarding material from those present

5. Conference planning update
    * pydata NY debrief
        * FK: copy-paste error, already done last time?
        * FK: no, Jonathan was not here, keep until here
    * pydata global - update by FK
        * currently finishing prep for tutorial on Dec 6
        * talk rehearsal needs to be moved due to clash with tutorial rehearsals, and MR not here (planned originally for after this meeting) - FK suggest early Thu, Dec 7
        * KR: when is rehearsal tomorrow, Dec 6?
            * FK: for tutorial, 9am UTC discord
            * for talk, not scheduled, propose Thu Dec 7 
        * UO: where is rehearsal?
        * FK: feel free to join, rehearsal is in public discord channel, meet-up channel
            * another one in 30min, around 6pm today

7. MR: brainstorm community events

* FK: MR not present, need to move to next time MR is here

8. FK: JB treasurer check-in?
    * 2023 statements
    * fundraising
    * 2024 projections (if any)

* FK: JB not present, need to move

10. AOB

* FK - next meeting, holidays?
* regular day, Dec 19, ok with all
