# sktime community meeting notes 2023-04-21

**Date:** 
21/04/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** MR, JB, FK, KR

**Minuting:** FK

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/GQJy87zYQH2wljr5pQv4Jg)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. meet-up and discussion: Wikipedia governance model

3. Review of minutes
   * 2023-04-14
   * 2023-03-31
       * outstanding actions:
            * action JS: time-zone needs updated
            * action FK: proactively ping Markus to ensure that minuting is representative of what happened from his point of view

4. Review of outstanding actions
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
   * action FK: sktime.net emails
   * action FK: share digital access
      * action on other council members: Github invites (to others: check spam )
      * action on other council members: Linkedin invite (to other: require connect with FK)
      * action on other council members: readthedocs (to other: account required) 
    * Action FK & KR: set up meeting on summer internship planning next week
    * All concil members action: look into procedure standing agreements and make comments before Apr 21 meeting
* action FK: contact Kishan about ODSC london
* action MR: to update next week if can participate in ODSC workshop
* action JS: see if wikipedia expert can join, if not set up a meeting when he is available


5. scheduling
    * meeting with prophet
    * gov working group

6. procedure standing agreement - decision making

   * async communication - how to use discord announcements
     https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
   * fast-track and urgent decision making
     https://hackmd.io/jIWGs789SluEHr3_3NVbuA

7. FK, KR update: internships
    * timelines
    * funding
    * involvement of council members - conflict of interest handling

8. governance working group
    * vision statement
    * decision table

9. FK: conferences update
    * pydata Seattle
    * pydata Prague
    * ODSC Europe

10. reserved items

11. AOB


## Notes

low attendance - only FK and MR at first, so started discussion with point 7 re CoI handling (MR on the CoC council)

MR - potential problems, opinions:

* fund and have a "preferred candidate" - shouldn't get to choose the person
* mentoring might be ok
* funder should recuse themselves from decision on appointment
    * but interaction with project should still be ok
    * cannot see CoI or opportunity biase with that

JB:

* mechanism must distinguish funding a project vs funding a person
* possible apporach: funder can specify project, e.g., features to implement
* but cannot control or participate in selection mechanism

FK:

* so potential conflicts to address are
    * "preferred candidate" corruption, fund & give position to someone, excluding others from opportunity
    * tax evasion or shadow job, place project with sktime instead of the company
* leaving appointment process with sktime and ensuring CoI persons are not involved for a given position should resolve these at least partially

KR (after joining):

* makes sense to separate processes - project content vs appointmnet

JB:

* what about a non-corrupt situation where there is not a "preferred candidate" but someone in the community who could be a good fit
* could this be dealt with by contributing to intern pool but no influence on hiring process?
* i.e., handling "referral" candidates
    * MR: could still handle this
    * FK: but then the panel should not be told about referral
    * MR: could do blinding or anonymization
    * FK: could work like public tender rules, where "canvassing" the panel is grounds for disqualification - including contacting panelists


everyone is here, let's move to agenda



1. Review of agenda points
    * covered part of 7 above
    * 2 deferred to next time - neither  Jana nor expert are here
        * MR proposes to delay
        * agreed

3. Review of minutes
   * 2023-04-14
       * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230414-meeting.md
       * no additions, agreed and closed
   * 2023-03-31
       * outstanding actions:
            * action JS: time-zone needs updated
                * time zone has been added, done
            * action FK: proactively ping Markus to ensure that minuting is representative of what happened from his point of view
                * done, here: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/53
                * FK: no feedback so far, leave it open one more week?
        * actions complete, keep minutes open until Apr 28 for feedback

4. Review of outstanding actions
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
       * not done, track
   * action FK: sktime.net emails
       * not done, track
   * action FK: share digital access
      * action on other council members: Github invites (to others: check spam )
          * only Jana, Marc accepted
          * action: FK will resend invitations
      * action on other council members: Linkedin invite (to other: require connect with FK)
          * action all: check and track
      * action on other council members: readthedocs (to other: account required) 
          * action: please communicate acct names in council channel or to FK in PM
    * Action FK & KR: set up meeting on summer internship planning next week
        * done, update below
    * All council members action: look into procedure standing agreements and make comments before Apr 21 meeting
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
        * done
* action FK: contact Kishan about ODSC london
    * sent PM, no reply - track
* action MR: to update next week if can participate in ODSC workshop
    * ongoing, track
* action JS: see if wikipedia expert can join, if not set up a meeting when he is available
    * not here, probably next week then? track

5. scheduling
    * meeting with prophet
        * FK - current proposal (placeholder that can be changed) via calendar tool: Thursday, April 27, 2023
14:30 - 15:00 (Pacific Daylight Time) = 22:30 EU and 21:30 UK
    * gov working group
        * MR: need +1 meeting?
        * after council meeting on Fr 28?
        * agreed

6. procedure standing agreement - decision making

   * async communication - how to use discord announcements
     https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49

     * MR comments in issue
     * question 1 - delay or time for reading material?
     * question 2 - who populates the asnyc channel, responsibility
     * question 3 - tech of editing contributing, seems clunky
         * FK: answered on GitHub
     * agreed and adopted
         * including that minuter (today FK) populates channels
         * action FK: FK will also create the channels as outlined

   * fast-track and urgent decision making
     https://hackmd.io/jIWGs789SluEHr3_3NVbuA
     * comment by JS - this should be put on GitHub, re transparency
     * FK did not see the comment! it is from Mar 31
     * the fact we did not spot this validates that JS comment is very sensible
     * action FK: put on GitHub and treat as proposal subject to the async decision making process now adopted (start from scratch)
         * agreed

7. FK, KR update: internships
    * timelines
        * idea is to publish call with application deadline late May
        * schema is as previous years, with project proposal
        * interviews to happen in late May or early June
        * FK to action setup of internship application page
    * funding
        * via open collective (EU non-profit)
        * expect some donations (tbd) by May
    * involvement of council members - conflict of interest handling
        * already discussed at start, see there

8. governance working group update
    * next meeting on Fr, Apr 28
        * everyone review vision statement, decision table
        * vision statement mostly considered
        * decision table is still open (all have a look)

9. FK: conferences update
    * pydata Seattle
        * FK and JB will go and present
    * pydata Prague
        * FK will present
        * abstract sent (standard sktime intro template)
    * ODSC Europe
        * blog post now shared on gmail
        * still needs finalization
        * for access to blog post on gmail, send gmail address
        * MR probably can attend

10. reserved items

11. AOB
