
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-05-05

**Date:** 
05/05/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:**
FK, JB, JS, MR

**Minuting:** 
MR

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/GQJy87zYQH2wljr5pQv4Jg)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-04-21
   * 2023-03-31
       * open until Apr 28 for feedback on actions completed
            * action JS: time-zone needs updated
                * time zone has been added, done
            * action FK: proactively ping Markus to ensure that minuting is representative of what happened from his point of view
                * done, here: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/53


3. Review of outstanding actions
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
       * not done, track
   * action FK: sktime.net emails
       * not done, track
   * action FK: share digital access
      * action on other council members: Github invites (to others: check spam )
          * only Jana, Marc accepted
          * action: FK will resend invitations
      * action on other council members: Linkedin invite (to other: require connect with FK)
          * action all: check and track
      * action on other council members: readthedocs (to other: account required) 
          * action: please communicate acct names in council channel or to FK in PM
    * action FK: contact Kishan about ODSC london
        * sent PM, no reply - track
    * action MR: to update next week if can participate in ODSC workshop
        * ongoing, track
    * action JS: see if wikipedia expert can join, if not set up a meeting when he is available
        * not here, probably next week then? track
        * action FK: FK to create channels for async communication as outlined in https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
            * question: should this go in gov documentation?

    * action FK: put decision making proposal on GitHub and treat as proposal subject to the async decision making process now adopted (start from scratch)
    * action FK to action setup of internship application page
    * action for next meeting on Fr, Apr 28 re gov design
        * everyone review vision statement, decision table
        * vision statement mostly considered
        * decision table is still open (all have a look)

3. scheduling
    * gov working group
    * conference planning
    * internship planning
    * Wikipedia expert presentation

6. pydata Seattle debrief - FK, JB
    * presentation
    * numfocus, Leah Silen - Outreachy intern starting in May on gov models, to connect with Jana

7. meeting with prophet - FK, JB - summary

4. update on async communication - how to use discord announcements
    * update on channels and use

5. proposed decisions
    * proposal by FK: fast-track and urgent decision making
        * 1st round, for review
    * proposal by FK: fund Sagar round trip to pydata London
        * classification, panel, distances topic
        * contributions here: https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4517
        * likely cost to sktime around 600-1000 GBP
        * note CoI, Sagar being council member

8. summer internships
    * timelines
    * interviews
    * need to org onboarding days, dev sprint

9. governance working group
    * document review
    * vision statement
    * decision table
    * next steps

10. conferences update
    * pydata Prague
    * pydata London
    * ODSC Europe

11. AOB

## Notes

1. Review of agenda points
- MR: move conf planning to first point after review
- JB: needs to leave early
- FK: move debriefs to first point after action (require JB)

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-04-21
       * FK: any comments from the meeting minutes below?
           * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230421-meeting.md
        * Rest are ok: meeting minutes agreed    
   * 2023-03-31
       * FK: close these meeting minutes as all aggre to no additions/corrections
       * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230331-meeting.md
       * open until Apr 28 for feedback on actions completed
            * action JS: time-zone needs updated
                * time zone has been added, done
            * action FK: proactively ping Markus to ensure that minuting is representative of what happened from his point of view
                * done, here: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/53


3. Review of outstanding actions
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
       * JS: Done, shared doc to community council
   * action FK: sktime.net emails
       * FK: Done, all should recieve invite - first.last@sktime.net which forwards to personal address
       * MR, KR: have recieved 
   * action FK: share digital access
      * action on other council members: Github invites (to others: check spam )
          * Update: KR not accepted Github team membership - KR missed email
          * action KR: follow up if accepted on next meeting
      * action on other council members: Linkedin invite (to other: require connect with FK)
          * action on all: check and track
      * action on other council members: readthedocs (to other: account required) 
          * actionon all: please communicate acct names in council channel or to FK in PM
          * MR: sent account
          * action FK: add account
              * FK to follow up (search PM anc council channel)
    * action FK: contact Kishan about ODSC london
        * sent PM, no reply - track
    * action MR: Done, got confirmation from employer to attend
        * ongoing, track
    * action JS: see if wikipedia expert can join, if not set up a meeting when he is available
        * will join on Wed extra meeting
        * Action JS: google meet
    * action FK: FK to create channels for async communication as outlined in https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
        * Update: done
        * FK: should this go in gov documentation?
        * action FK: update doc to include new discord channels

    * action FK: put decision making proposal on GitHub and treat as proposal subject to the async decision making process now adopted (start from scratch)
        * Update FK: done, link below
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/54
    * action FK to action setup of internship application page
        * Update FK: done, online and advertised, link below. Deadline May 19th
        * https://github.com/sktime/mentoring/blob/main/internships/sktime2023.md
        * FK: how to advertise this best?
    * action for next meeting on Fr, Apr 28 re gov design
        * everyone review vision statement, decision table
        * vision statement mostly considered
            * Update from some council members
        * decision table is still open (all have a look)
            * FK: not much input
            * JS: maybe structure unclear?
            * FK: discuss content by setting up a meeting?

3. scheduling
    * gov working group - FK, MR, JS, JB, KR - after expert presentation, May 10
    * conference planning - FK, MR - May 8, 3pm UTC
    * internship planning - FK, KR - May 8, 2pm UTC
    * Wikipedia expert presentation - FK, MR, JS, KR, May 10, Wed 3:30pm UTC

6. pydata Seattle debrief - FK, JB
    * presentation
        * FK: networking oportunity, got video-tutorial out of it
        * JB: not great timing for the talk - keep an eye out for similar oporunities as material is good and content is valuable - bigger potential audience
        * FK: resumbit to pydata amsterdam
    * numfocus, Leah Silen - Outreachy intern starting in May on gov models, to connect with Jana
        * FK: talked to CEO of NumF, said encouraging word, positive sentiment towards the project/community
        

7. meeting with prophet - FK, JB - summary
    *  FK: get idea into workstream, see below
    * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4543
    * JB: broader project, can live in sktime initially
    * FK: set up a meeting with other project members? How to move forward
    * JB: have next meeting in couple of weeks as ideation is already in place - goal would be to solidify concept
    * FK: agrees, particularly if pre-design in place
    * JB: draft internally first - JB leaves


4. update on async communication - how to use discord announcements
    * update on channels and use
    * FK: as above, this is done. Proposal open 1 week, moves to decision after that if not removed/withdrawn
    * FK: mechanism if info is not enough or clear? Idea: move discussion to weekly meeting?
    * MR: agrees

5. proposed decisions
    * proposal by FK: fast-track and urgent decision making
        * 1st round, for review
        * FK: Open until 06-05, in github (proposal JS for trabsparenc)
    * proposal by FK: fund Sagar round trip to pydata London
        * classification, panel, distances topic
        * contributions here: https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4517
        * likely cost to sktime around 600-1000 GBP
        * note CoI, Sagar being council member
        * JS: question regarding access to funds?
        * FK: documentation is extensive, works through invoicing and is transparent for other orgs
        * action FK: reach directly via slack to opencollective for tax question for non-profit
        * FK: proposal to pay out of pocket himself on behalf of Sagar, then invoice for reimbursement 
        * action FK: update above on discord channel for decision making
        * JS: does this make a difference for opencollective invoicing?
        * FK: still visible and transparent, belives should not be an issue but needs to check
        * action FK: check invoicing related to other's travel question with opencollective
        * FK: ensure that all invoices are accurate and then are avail

8. summer internships
    * timelines
    * advertising
        * action FK: add advert to readthedocs and github
        * FK: twitter not an option unfortunately - account not recovered
        * KR: any action to get this back?
        * FK: robochats not useful and case does not fall within their definition, also sktime does not have a trademark
        * KR: followers?
        * FK: ~400 twitter, ~200 linkedin
        * action FK: reach out to pycaret as they have nice following in linkedin
        * KR: paper advert?
        * action FK, KR, MR: papers on unis?
        * action MR: mailing list or repost about interships with employer
    * interviews
    * need to org onboarding days, dev sprint
        * FK: volunteers for review or panelist?
        * MR: could help on this 

9. governance working group
    * document review
    * vision statement
        * FK: enough input
    * decision table
        * Action on all: look into decision table before Wed, add independent opinion on content
    * next steps
    
10. conferences update
    * pydata Prague
        * FK: went really well - submit to pydata Prague conference (actual conference vs meetup, which was the event above) - community reconsolidating after corona
        * FK: who could attend? 
        * action FK: reach out to simon for potential attendance
    * pydata London
        * FK: classification/distances/clustering topic - Sagar could contrib to this
    * ODSC Europe
        * FK: planning next week (se above)

11. AOB
