
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-09-05

**Date:** 
05/09/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, MR, UO

**Minuting:** MR

**Moderator**: FK



## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

* list of minutes with links on community council channel for final comments, defaults to approval by Aug 22

FK: ok or objections re proceeding this way?
* MR no problems, agrees
* UO no objections
* approved minutes that were still outstanding

3. Review of actions

    * reminder - various outstanding reviews

        * delayed publication draft
            * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
            * not done, track

    * various action tracking (no immediate action)

        * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * track & highlight at community sprint

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
            * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
            * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
            * track, keep open

        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform
            * track until reply

        * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
            * Alexandra Amidon
            * Joanna Lenczuk
            * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
                * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
                * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
            * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
                * wait and track

    * action planned
        * action JB: easypoll for internal votes
            * blocker: unclear how to read out results (person other than who set up vote)
            * JB has contacted easypoll support
            * track
            * solved - reply received
            * action JB: wrap up, add to Jana issue https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
            * JB not here today, revisit


        * action FK: follow up on fugue collaboration
            * not done, do

        * action FK: draft election provisions
            * done, shared for review in the council channel

4. updates for those returning from holiday

* action tracking
    * Aug 15, decision async on moving non-reserved action tracking from discord to GitHub
    * is that ok? comments? (most were not present)

* poll on meeting time
* dataset hosting
* policy discussion on collaboration requests (industry, academia)

5. conferences - Amsterdam, Prague

* FK: update status

6. governance topics

* treasurer, OCE (FK, MR, JB)
* statutes next steps
* election provisions & review

7. AOB


## Minutes

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

* list of minutes with links on community council channel for final comments, defaults to approval by Aug 22
* FK: backlog of minutes - outstanding set for approval and are approved. Objection?
* MR: Agree (asked due to being out at time of decision)
* UO: Agree

3. Review of actions

    * reminder - various outstanding reviews

        * delayed publication draft
            * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
            * Still: not done, track

    * various action tracking (no immediate action)

        * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * track & highlight at community sprint

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
            * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
            * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
            * track, keep open

        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform
            * track until reply

        * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
            * Alexandra Amidon
            * Joanna Lenczuk
            * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
                * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
                * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
            * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
                * wait and track

    * action planned
        * action JB: easypoll for internal votes
            * blocker: unclear how to read out results (person other than who set up vote)
            * JB has contacted easypoll support
            * track
            * solved - reply received
            * action JB: wrap up, add to Jana issue https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55


        * action FK: follow up on fugue collaboration
            * not done, do

        * action FK: draft election provisions
            * Done: shared for review
            * Action on all: review! 

4. updates for those returning from holiday

* action tracking
    * Aug 15, decision async on moving non-reserved action tracking from discord to GitHub
    * is that ok? comments? (most were not present)
    * FK: JS, KR, JB, FK discussed channel usefullness for actions - just use Github issue and track in minutes.
    * MR: agree with not duplicating, seems good change
    * UO: Does github have ability to track open issue? 
    * FK: Recently introduces inbox to track issues you are involved in
    * UO: In office we use linear, but will check out inbox
    * FK: can demo afterwards

* poll on meeting time
    * FK: low participation but current time (Tue 4PM UTC) better. Is this true?
    * JB: Agrees is better time
    * MR: Also agrrem not sure if participated in vote but is preferable
    * UO: Also agree
    * MR: maybe more relevant question for those who arent here?
    * dataset hosting
    * FK: increase size for unpaid (to 10 Gb up from 1 Gb), mirror  is 3 Gb. Can use github space, although limited. No expenditure needed now, discussion can be closed (if there is no need to increase download quota)
    * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4754
* policy discussion on collaboration requests (industry, academia)
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/57
    * FK: discussion started on above issue - discussion should be trackled soon
    * Action for all: review, contribute opinions towards getting towards an agreement and defining a policy. 
* JB: nominated myself for treasurer
    * FK: process not clarified, but risk of not going forward.

5. conferences - Amsterdam, Prague

* FK: update status
    * FK: solved participation in both. In AMS proba, in Prague benchmarking/pipelines. Appreciate review although hard as bleeding edge.
    * MR: dates?
    * FK: amsterdam sept 14th, prague sept 17th
    * MR: will try to help out with review of prague nbs

6. governance topics
* treasurer, OCE (FK, MR, JB)
    * FK: status update, open actions:
        * Role specs: PR that is not merged (in discord channel)
            * Action MR: edit PR with updated specs and merge before anouncement
        * JB: communicate
            * JB: where to post?
            * FK: proposes annocement on discord
            * MR: maybe linkedin? But not necessarily, keep discord
            * FK: 2 weeks
        * JB: nomination
* statutes next steps
    * FK: full draft available, some discussion has occured. Reminder:
        * Action on all: review current doc
        * Statutes are quite general, e.g. elections are defined but details on process is not in scope for statutes. 
        * MR: separate document for election procedure?
        * FK: yes, statues is more general, but proceeding should be approved individually
        * FK: attempt to run elections this year?
        * MR: agree! Should be main gov aim
        * 
* election provisions & review
    * Reserved
7. AOB

