# sktime community meeting notes 2023-09-19

**Date:** 
19/09/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** MR, KR, FK, UO, JS, JB

**Minuting:** FK

**Moderator**:


## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

    * reminder - various outstanding reviews

        * delayed publication draft
            * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56

    * various action tracking (no immediate action)

        * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
            * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
            * decision is conditional on easypoll action
           
        * action all - review draft statutes

        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform

        * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
            * Alexandra Amidon
            * Joanna Lenczuk
            * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
                * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
                * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
            * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
                * wait and track

    * action planned
        * action JB: easypoll for internal votes
            * action JB: wrap up, add to Jana issue https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55


        * action FK: follow up on fugue collaboration

        * action FK: draft election provisions

4. Conferences:
    * Debrief previous conferences
    * Planning for upcomming conferences
        * NY
        * pydata global

5. Governance:
    * Next steps statutes
    * Election provisions
    * Reserved item 1
    * Reserved item 2

7. AOB
    * MR: (minor) Streamline agenda updating/posting?


## Minutes

1. Review of agenda

* no additions

2. Review of minutes

reviewing minutes of 09-05
MR, FK and UO happy with the minutes - accepted

3. Review of actions

    * reminder - various outstanding reviews

        * delayed publication draft
            * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * input has happened over months
        * action KR: put this up for voting, write final form

    * various action tracking (no immediate action)

        * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server
            * role specification was merged (MR)
            * JB did not anonunce role
            * action JB: announce

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * opportunity not taken, closed

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
            * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
            * decision is conditional on easypoll action
            * close out - try easypoll voting on "delayed decision publication" draft, collect more feedback (track)
        * action all - review draft statutes
            * FK: added agenda item to close this out
            * track, discuss finalization steps in dedicated agenda item

        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform

        * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
            * Alexandra Amidon
            * Joanna Lenczuk
            * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
                * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
                * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
            * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
                * wait and track
                * gentle reminder w/c Sep 25

    * action planned
        * action JB: easypoll for internal votes
            * action JB: wrap up, add to Jana issue https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
            * can be closed
            *  Update: Jana closed issue


        * action FK: follow up on fugue collaboration
            * FK: working on refactoring parallellization
            * pinged fugue maintainers, discussion underway
            * done

        * action FK: draft election provisions
            * draft was shared and rpesented in 09-05
            * if anyone has questions, or should present again, please say so
            * shared via hackmd in private discord
            * https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1084417014166212618/1144418618973638678
                * discord message link in private channel (accessible only to council)
            * async for 1 week

4. Conferences:
    * Debrief previous conferences
        * Ams gave presentation on skpro, proba forecasting with sktime
            * FK was there, sub-optimal venue, but lots of attendees (50-100?)
            * short notice announcement: sprint
                * FK could not attend due to pycon Prague at same time
            * Arnau (contributor also at ams) volunteered to run sprint
                * sprint org was at third party venue, very chaotic
                * Arnau reports 60 sign-ups, but only 2 people made it to venue
        * Prague - workshop with ca 30 people
            * very interactive, very positive feedback

    * Planning for upcoming conferences
        * pydata NY
            * JB on ground, located in NY
            * very short timeframe for submissions!
            * deadline is Sep 22
            * finance centric audience likely, NY
            * uncertainty quantification, probabilistic?
            * time series & financial data
            * action FK: share with Jonathan all previous proposals to pysths
            * JB to lead on submission
        * pydata global
            * Oct 1st
            * all virtual, broadcast
            * FYI
            * FK will think about best topic
            * anyone please input

5. Governance:
    * Next steps statutes
        * JS open questions, points: https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1084417014166212618/1150445162414211102
        * action on all, go through this
        * timebox Sep 24
        * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
    * Election provisions
        * timebox review with feedback, Sep 24
    * Reserved item 1
    * Reserved item 2

7. AOB
    * MR: (minor) Streamline agenda updating/posting?
