# sktime community meeting notes 2023-03-31

**Date:** 
31/03/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** Franz Kiraly, Jonathan Bechtel, Marc Rovira, Kiril Ralinovski, Markus Loning (until 18:23), Jana Schmidberger
Minuting: JS

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points


2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-03-24
   * 2023-03-17 after moving comments to end
       * mloning input issue: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/50 (opened on 2023-03-31)


3. Review of actions arising 2023-03-24 and carried over
   * action all: pydata London contribution (consider opportunity)
   * action all: OSDC Europe contribution (consider opportunity)
      * involvement in presentation, blog post 
          * see: scheduling
   * action taken by official comms chanel: communicate he can open an issue or make a PR where minutes are taken
   * action FK: to move comments on ML minutes in 2023-03-17 to end
   * action FK: propose "mechanics" for async decision making
       * done, tabled as point 4
   * action FK: coordinate JS & MR to contribute to message OSDC
       * everyone to start collecting thoughts, optimally hackmd
       * need to align on meeting sequence until Apr 15
   * action FK: to share credentials (via LastPass, see above) but 2FA on FK's phone - each council member who wished log must contact him on login attempt to get 2FA code 
       * not done - discussion thread went stale
       * reason: recent LastPass security breaches! needs discussion
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
   * action all: all to provide input here
       * need for separate gove meeting? model & elections

3. scheduling
   * JS, MR - meeting sequence re OSDC blog post
   * separate gov meeting needed?
   * sorting out IT meeting needed? async?
   * internship selection panels

4. procedure standing agreement - decision making

   * async communication - how to use discord announcements
     https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
   * fast-track and urgent decision making
     https://hackmd.io/jIWGs789SluEHr3_3NVbuA

5. admin points
    * `sktime` digital infrastructure access sharing
       * discord moderation
       * GitHub credentials
       * `sktime` email credentials
       * social media accounts
    * summer internships
       * collecting volunteer effort
       * FK will share current materials for review
       * need to send out communication soon, set dates
    * decisions
        * Sagar conference travel -> will be tabled for decision in decision making process from 5 until next week

6. JS: governance model high-level corner points
   * high-level options for foundational structure
   * membership, electoral rights
   * technical governance and/or legal governance
   * collecting questions and decision points

7. reserved item: communication with Markus Loning on pypi
   * schedule separate meeting for this?

8. AOB

## Notes
Jana takes notes
Marc is moderating

First Point: input from Markus

* ML 4 weeks since he sent email to Franz
* ML He sent Email to sktime address and Kiril + Marc
* ML asks if we want to hear from him
* MR asks if he did receive any communication
* ML he did not receive any communication from Kiril, Marc or sktime
* MR asks if he received any other communcation with regards to the topic, joint message communicated that way - did he receive any communication related to it
* ML asks if there is a link? no communication has reached him, is there something on Github? he asks if we want to talk to him
* MR there was some communication, we will check what to share, acting as moderator
* ML doesn't undertand why it is cryptic
* MR he wants to coordinate several voices therefore he needs some time, asks ML to rejoin in 10min
* ML he thinks he knows what MR is referring to, he says we have no interst in discussing it personally- this is what he will take away that nooone wants to talk to him directly
* MR we have a unified message, therefore no one-to-one conversation
* ML he is confused because it is not on GitHub and we said it should be transparent
* KR we are referring to other communication, not sure how to formulate
* ML does not know what he means
* MR discussion internally, we will try to create united sktime communication, if he received any communication from us this was what was our communication on that matter, MR is only talking for his opinion, not much more to discuss - is there any other topic to dicuss?
* JB point of confusion, there was some communication from committee and the plan was to discuss that and work through this, confused that it didn't reach him, this is now preventing further discussions, maybe our fault that it didn't reach him
* ML he may has an idea, but that's ok - he says we don't want to speak to him directly now, now communication not public not open - we made that decision and that wasn't communicated openly, no message on Discord 
* MR we send a letter, formal letter to ML by mail, ML should receive it in physical form, that form of communciation was sent yesterday, reason for not going public directly, we wanted to give him time to respond to it, we always wanted to do it transparently, we have solved it now; the communication is public and now on Github, so no issue there (additional note from JS: the letter has been dispatched and the letter is open on Github 18:19 (German time), https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/51)
* ML that is it from his side then 
* MR thanks for joining, no other points? 
* MR and KR proceed with other points

ML left (18:23)

MR minuting for point 7 as JS is driving:
- JS: What would be tech gov setup and link with tech and legal governance
- JS: how input is added?
- FK: walkthrough points? Spell it out in terms of possible answers?
- JS: How to struct tech & legal gov; questions/action points based on german non profit, and types of questions that would need to be answered. Questions on different topics. Regards to purpose: for non profit needs to be specific purpose that a non profit can have - chose one from list of purposes and define how you would fullfil.
- JS: mechanism for legal representation (1 person, 2, mayority)
- JB: question on membership in relation to fees
- JS: defined in statutes/bylaws of the org and membership fees are proxy for level of involvement.
- JB: are fees done for funding and tieredd organisation?
- JS: FK commented on idea of no fee.
- FK: maybe no fee for early career DS but if companies want to be part it makes sense that there is a fee
- JB: what is offered for being a member? Plotly/dash have this tiered system where CPYs pay for having a roadmap imperative.
- KR: Is this tiered system possible under german non-profit law?
- JS: will need to look into it, touches on point of legal vs tech governance. Tiered system is good idea but there may be complications in terms of roadmap not being legally enforceable.
- JS: Django isolated tech governance and have a releaser role. Also tech governance can be legally enforceable. Other option is to have tech leadership being part of the legal gov

1. Review of agenda points

* MR presented agenda points

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-03-24
   * 2023-03-17 after moving comments to end
       * mloning input issue: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/50 (opened on 2023-03-31)

* MR and KR: skip review 
* FK: go through admin points 

3. Review of actions arising 2023-03-24 and carried over
   * action all: pydata London contribution (consider opportunity)
   * action all: OSDC Europe contribution (consider opportunity)
      * involvement in presentation, blog post 
          * see: scheduling
   * action taken by official comms chanel: communicate he can open an issue or make a PR where minutes are taken
   * action FK: to move comments on ML minutes in 2023-03-17 to end
   * action FK: propose "mechanics" for async decision making
       * done, tabled as point 4
   * action FK: coordinate JS & MR to contribute to message OSDC
       * everyone to start collecting thoughts, optimally hackmd
       * need to align on meeting sequence until Apr 15
   * action FK: to share credentials (via LastPass, see above) but 2FA on FK's phone - each council member who wished log must contact him on login attempt to get 2FA code 
       * not done - discussion thread went stale
       * reason: recent LastPass security breaches! needs discussion
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
   * action all: all to provide input here
       * need for separate gove meeting? model & elections



3. scheduling
   * JS, MR - meeting sequence re OSDC blog post
   * separate gov meeting needed?
   * sorting out IT meeting needed? async?
   * internship selection panels

Notes

OSDC
+ FK Contribute to OSDC: set-up meetings, meet two times, 
+ FK deadline: April 15 two weeks
+ MR, JS, FK April 4 and 11 (Tuesdays) 

IT 
+ FK async input for IT

Governance
+ FK working group meetings? Room for additional input or additional input 
+ MR no clear steps to get to a governance model, kick-off meeting
+ FK who wants to be part? JB, MR, KR, FK, JS
+ FK will set up scheduling poll TODAY

Internship selection panels
+ FK who wants to help there
+ JS will get back to Franz



4. procedure standing agreement - decision making

   * async communication - how to use discord announcements
     https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
   * fast-track and urgent decision making
     https://hackmd.io/jIWGs789SluEHr3_3NVbuA

+ FK should we go to 6.


5. admin points
    * `sktime` digital infrastructure access sharing
       * discord moderation
       * GitHub credentials
       * `sktime` email credentials
       * social media accounts
    * summer internships
       * collecting volunteer effort
       * FK will share current materials for review
       * need to send out communication soon, set dates
    * decisions
        * Sagar conference travel -> will be tabled for decision in decision making process from 5 until next week

6. JS: governance model high-level corner points
   * high-level options for foundational structure
   * membership, electoral rights
   * technical governance and/or legal governance
   * collecting questions and decision points

Link to document: https://hackmd.io/VqC8ljn6TQOAqYA5Rlkw8w

* JS presented document
* FK will create a doodle to find a time for the next steps


7. reserved item: communication with Markus Loning on pypi
   * schedule separate meeting for this?

8. AOB

Meeting closed 19:00
