# sktime community meeting notes 2023-05-12

**Date:** 
12/05/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, JB, KR, MR, JS, TROOPER YASH (joined later)

**Minuting:** JS

Moderator: FK

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/GQJy87zYQH2wljr5pQv4Jg)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-05-05

3. Review of outstanding actions
   * action FK: share digital access
      * action on other council members: Github invites (to others: check spam )
      * action FK: add MR to readthedocs account

    * Action JS: set up google meet with Wikipedia expert
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
    * action for next meeting
        * everyone review vision statement, decision table
        * vision statement mostly considered
            * Update from some council members
        * decision table is still open (all have a look)
    * actions re summer internships
        * FK: add advert for summer internships on readthedocs and github
        * FK, KR, MR: paper advertisement on unis?
        * FK: reach out to pycaret to boost as they have nice following in linkedin
    * actions re conferences
        * action FK: contact Kishan about ODSC london
            * sent PM, no reply - track
        * action FK: reach out to simon for potential attendance pydata prague

4. scheduling
    * reminder - conference planning scheduled May 15 at 3pm UTC

7. proposed decisions
    * proposal by FK: fast-track and urgent decision making
        * was open for review until 06-05
        * now 2nd round, decision
    * proposal by FK: fund Sagar round trip to pydata London
        * was open for review until 06-05
        * now 2nd round, decision
    * proposal by FK: add Benedikt as a core dev

5. update - internship planning
    * need panelists - JB, MR, JS?
    * advertising update

6. update - conference planning
    * pydata London - in preparation
        * FK, SM
    * OSDC London - in preparation
        * FK, MR
        * blog post seems blocked? what to do
    * pydata Prague
    * pydata Amsterdam

8. governance working group
    * debrief meeting with Wikimedia
    * vision statement
    * reserved - short term strategy

9. benchmarking/prophet next steps

10. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of agenda points

* MR: Voting async as an extra agenda point? It is included in No. 5
    + to add proposal Benedikt as a core dev
    + FK added the decision

* sequence of agenda is accepted
*  JB: Add additional point to Governance from Wikimedia talk

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-05-05

* Minutes are accepted 

3. Review of outstanding actions
   * action FK: share digital access
      * action on other council members: Github invites (to others: check spam )
      * action FK: add MR to readthedocs account
      * Update: KR has still not accepted but on it currently -> checking back next week

    * Action JS: set up google meet with Wikipedia expert
        * Update: has happened 
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * Update: not done, checking back next week 
    * action for next meeting
        * everyone review vision statement, decision table
        * vision statement mostly considered
            * Update from some council members
        * decision table is still open (all have a look)
            * Update: concluded 
    * actions re summer internships
        * FK: add advert for summer internships on readthedocs and github
            * Update: done
        * FK, KR, MR: paper advertisement on unis?
            * Update: KR will do it, FK won't do it, MR doesn't know yet
        * FK: reach out to pycaret to boost as they have nice following in linkedin
            * Update: It was forwarded, it got some reach, it is done 
    * actions re conferences
        * action FK: contact Kishan about ODSC london
            * sent PM, no reply - track
            * Update: no commitment from Kishan, therefore he won't copresent
        * action FK: reach out to szymon for potential attendance pydata prague
            * FK: I think it was Michal we meant?
            * Szymon is in Poland, not the Czech Republic
            * Update: name not clear, will be checked -> new action
    * action MR: to update next week if can participate in ODSC workshop
        * MR will go 

    * action FK: introduce Leah and Jana 
        * Update: Done 

4. scheduling
    * reminder - conference planning scheduled May 15 at 3pm UTC
        * and another one May 22


5. proposed decisions
    * proposal by FK: fast-track and urgent decision making
        * was open for review until 06-05
        * now 2nd round, decision
        * **Decision**: 3 Yes -> still open, no majority (time box ends at 10pm UTC)
        
    * proposal by FK: fund Sagar round trip to pydata London
        * was open for review until 06-05
        * now 2nd round, decision
        * **Question**: FK: how to vote? no tooling to make it anonymous;  https://easypoll.bot; FK won't run the vote, MR takes over moderating; mechanism for voting: typing in favor or against? MR: typing makes sense 
        * **Decision**: 3 Yes -> majority
        * **Action**: set up anonymous voting, JB: checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time
    * proposal by FK: add Benedikt as a core dev
        * **Decision**: 3 Yes -> still open, no majority

6. update - internship planning
    * need panelists - JB, MR, JS?
    * advertising update
    * Update: FK: Advertisement was sent out, application closed next Friday, outlined what should be done in interviews, more panelists needed, scoring and interviews will take place as advertised, panelist can take place in one or the other, interview process will be coordinated by FK; date: Fri May 25 4pm UTC, interviews will take half a day or one day; 29 is a holiday, 30 would be an option; use 29 as an option for people where it is not an holiday; onboarding week for interns, it is the week after Pydata London 1 or 2 days: introducing them to the structure etc., week begining June 5
    * Can anyone contribute? MR won't have time, JB asks for clarification - what sort of chunks of time? Two blocks of presentation, Q&A, what's Github flow etc., JB would be tentatively be interested, he could offer specific times - some conditions
    * TROOPER YASH: questions regarding interview process -> more information, FK points to official website 
**Action:** FK send slides to JB
    * Panelists? No commitment
    * Concrete timelines in minutes from internship planning meeting (copied by FK)
        * interview process - scheduling
            * reconciliation meeting - May 25 or 26? 1h usually
                * May 25, 4pm UTC tentative
                * could also do May 26 after council, but everyone might be tired
                * check with other panelists whether May 25, 4pm UTC works
            * invitations - send after reconciliation
            * interviews, panel schedule - May 29 or 30?
                * full day or half day!
                * set on May 29, all applicants for whom May 29 is not a holday
                * May 30 rest of applicants, afternoon
            * reconciliation meeting - shortly after; 1h meeting
                * directly after May 30 interviews (30min pause or so)
            * acceptances - send after interviews

6. update - conference planning
    * pydata London - in preparation
        * FK, SM
        * Update: already discussed
    * OSDC London - in preparation
        * FK, MR
        * blog post seems blocked? what to do
        * Update: blog post isn't published, it is going back and forth, no progress; FK: how to unblock? 
        * **Action:** FK track speaker registration; send MR as a speaker
    * pydata Prague
        * we need to find a topic
        * **Action**: think about it topic
    * pydata Amsterdam
        * early June
        * **Action**

8. governance working group
    * debrief Wikimedia foundation meeting
        * **Action**: Collect questions for lawyer in writing in existing thread, 24h time window, JS will send email 
    * vision statement
        * come to a decision here, put it in the official process? Use official channel with time box, it is reserved
        * **Action**: FK will put it in the decision channel 
    * reserved - short term strategy
    

9. benchmarking/prophet next steps
* Postponed 

10. AOB
