# sktime community meeting notes 2023-03-24

**Date:** 
24/03/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** Franz Kiraly, Kiril Ralinovski, Marc Rovira, Jana Schmidberger, Jonathan Bechtel, Jeremy Toepp

Minuting: by MR

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes 2023-03-17
   * check: any feedback on minutes received from Markus Loning

3. reserved item: communication with Markus Loning on pypi

4. Review of actions arising 2023-03-17 and carried over
   * action FK: notify pydata Berlin of Kiril volunteering
   * action all: pydata London contribution (consider opportunity)
   * action all: OSDC Europe contribution (consider opportunity)
      * involvement in presentation, blog post 

5. procedure standing agreement - decision making incl async input. For transition period, may be superseded by final gov design.
   * standard decision items? FK proposal: 5 working day rule ("async log in once a week") for input and votes, table in weekly meeting. Attendance not necessary, but description of what decision is.
   * urgent decision items? FK proposal: unilateral action, must report to council asap. Can result in motion to veto or penalize, CoC action. Semi-urgent: 3 working day rule, incremental vote. Possible motion to veto.

6. arising from 2023-03-17 - expenditure for Sagar to attend pydata Seattle
   * text of original proposal by FK.
       * workshop accepted on skbase. FK, Ryan and tentatively Sagar Mishra (contributors to base) will travel
       * Sagar Mishra (achieveordie) needs travel funding
           * reason: contributed persistence and other base features
           * would be great to support early career contributor (important networking opportunity, presentation opportunity)
       * usually we would apply to NumFOCUS or use research grant funds, but that's not an option (due to the splinter group controlling some money and NumFOCUS no longer affiliated)
       * FK suggestion for expense - reimbursement via sktime open collective, max total of 2.500 GBP
       * FK will donate at least twice the amount to sktime from personal funds (irrespective of decision taken here)
       * usual procedure (decided to adopt for now): proposed in first council meeting (above), decision in second council meeting and async round until then; comes into effect when minutes of decision are confirmed in 3rd meeting, all meetings at least 1 calendar week apart
       * please note conflict of interest - Sagar Mishra is a member of this council and must recuse himself
   * decision procedure subject to agreement in 5

7. admin points
    * `sktime` digital infrastructure access sharing
       * discord moderation
       * GitHub credentials
       * `sktime` email credentials
       * social media accounts
    * ITsec model

8. JS: governance model high-level corner points
   * high-level options for foundational structure
   * membership, electoral rights
   * technical governance and/or legal governance
   * collecting questions and decision points

9. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes 2023-03-17
   * check: any feedback on minutes received from Markus Loning
   * FK & KR & MR: noted that in private ML believed that minutes were not taken in a "neutral" way; he can provide explicit inputs on the minutes or correct any misrepresentation - all open to hear him out
   * action taken by official comms chanel: communicate he can open an issue or make a PR where minutes are taken
   * MR: good representation of what happened but can be surmised that minuted were taken from sktime council member (particularly comments or notes), KR suggests moving comments to end to not provide a commentary on the dialogue -  all agree
   * action FK: to move comments to end
   * JS: person who minuted not in hackmd, FK mentiones it is available in github
   * FK: date for Berlin conf not correct - corrected not

3. Review of actions arising 2023-03-17 and carried over
   * action FK: notify pydata Berlin of Kiril volunteering
   * action all: pydata London contribution (consider opportunity)
   * action all: OSDC Europe contribution (consider opportunity)
      * involvement in presentation, blog post
      * action FK: coordinate JS & MR to contribute to message OSDC

4. procedure standing agreement - decision making incl async input. For transition period, may be superseded by final gov design.
   * standard decision items? FK proposal: 5 working day rule ("async log in once a week") for input and votes, table in weekly meeting. Attendance not necessary, but description of what decision is.
       * FK: described proposal above
       * KR: where to have this "documented" oficially - What is the standard procedure to raise issue and vote; MR agrees that there should be some kind of governance "consitution" where rules for voting and participation are made explicit
       * FK: Agenda thread is used to raise as issue "as if present", voting thread is used "as if present" to vote on issues raised
       * JS: proposed to add a highlights section for people who do not read full notes but still can access most important items - all agree
       * action FK: will think and propose "mechanics" for this
   * urgent decision items? FK proposal: unilateral action, must report to council asap. Can result in motion to veto or penalize, CoC action. Semi-urgent: 3 working day rule, incremental vote. Possible motion to veto.
       * FK: proposal for extended veto period 5-10 days (defensive)
       * FK: one person can raise veto motion, but whole council must vote and veto only effective if mayority
       * KR: important that single person can raise veto motion (i.e. reversal motion)
       * FK: idea is for someone to be able to act unilateraly to raise veto motion because he/she feel the motion is representative of the whole council's opinion - if abused this will raise CoC issue (up to removal from council)
           * Example: unilateral action to change discord server setting to react to ITsec issue. any one member can raise veto issue to revert change in server settings
        *    KR: interim vs long term rules concern
        * action FK: by next week formulate the above processes and communciate to council.

5. arising from 2023-03-17 - expenditure for Sagar to attend pydata Seattle
   * decision procedure subject to agreement in 5
   * FK: cover from mechanism in pt 4, cover async

6. admin points
    * `sktime` digital infrastructure access sharing
       * discord moderation
       * GitHub credentials
       * `sktime` email credentials
       * social media accounts
    * ITsec model
    * KR: how to share creds? Proposed LastPass
    * action FK: to share credentials (via LastPass, see above) but 2FA on FK's phone - each council member who wished log must contact him on login attempt to get 2FA code 
    * remaining items, move to next

7. JS: governance model high-level corner points
   * high-level options for foundational structure
   * membership, electoral rights
   * technical governance and/or legal governance
   * collecting questions and decision points

*   JS: described legal and tech goveranance, who makes tech decisions, and defined questions when creating non-profit - if it is decided to go this way (non-prof) we would need to answer the questions in her doc
*   KR: example of gov model in an existing non-prof?
*   JS: legal gov with board (ex 3 members) but needs to define scope, but no reign over tech decisions. Example is Django where hey separated legal board (legal rights in non-prof) and then tech board (who have no legal rights/obligations)
*   KR: more deets on Django example?
*   JS: american entity 
*   KR: (some long word in german) can it be similar to american law?
*   JS: should be similar to american law
*   FK: Django model == Numfocus model (on superficial glance)
*   KR: asume we have german non-profit: can we have separate legal and tech bodies? I.e., can we copy django model in german law?
*   JS: it is flexible and easy for her to research, so should be ok to replicate model. Howevr does not propose to do this under german law, necesarily
*   FK: separate session on gov, we ran out of time
*   action JS: move to hackMD to be able to provide input on this

8. reserved item: communication with Markus Loning on pypi

9. AOB
