# sktime community meeting notes 2023-06-30


**Date:** 
30/06/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, MR, JS, JB, BH, HZ, (later: KR)

**Minuting:** MR

**Moderator**: FK

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/LUsu_aLHSDWPg9ofJ3urzg)


## Agenda

1. Review of Agenda

2. Review of minutes 
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230623-meeting.md

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4799

    * actions re conferences
        * all - pydata Prague (Aug submission)
            * all submitted
            * for review: in sktime gmail

        * FK - pydata Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * all submitted
            * for review: in sktime gmail

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * still todo, track

        * europython & community sprint

            * action FK: increase attendence slots for coding events
                * advertise europython (linkedin, discord)

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * dummy vote
            * check reporting results (how)
            * current status: outstanding action - how would reporting on results will work, track for next week or later if JB joins

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * track until decision
                    * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
        * action KR - reserved actions, track
            * still ongoing, track

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)
            * ongoing, track -> Marc not there

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message

        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * draft shared in private channel
            * create an active pipeline for posts

* action KR: organise a meeting for Franz, Sagar, CC  Marc + Kiril 
* action FK: FK opens an issue to decide on hosting data sets

* action FK - open issue to discuss hosting options
    * action KR, JB - input proposals

+ FK: user registration for showcasing projects
    + Action on FK: put it at CC

+ Action on UO: check for copyrights on youtube videos


    
4. scheduling
    * EuroPython
        * prep - who/when
        * postponed until relevant people are available, Kiril will potentially present, Sagar will potentially present + Franz, CC Marc
        * seperate meeting: Kiril will organise a meeting (action on him)
        * UO + JS will join virtually via Discord
    * governance - statutes, elections
        * outstanding action: sync with MR, plan

7. conferences - update

    * FK - europython sprint, community sprint
        * reminder of attendance
        * reminder: book flight


    * FK - voting/election design
        * action all - give this a thorough thought
            * checks & balances
            * election modus
            * risks, failure modes, arbitration

8. AOB




## Notes

1. Review of Agenda
- No additions to original agends

2. Review of minutes
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230623-meeting.md
    * Move approval to next week

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4799
        * FK: made proposal, some parts might be contentious due to adapting time limit
        * action on all: review the proposal on unclear sections & time limit

    * actions re conferences
        * all - pydata Prague (Aug submission)
            * all submitted
            * for review: in sktime gmail
            * FK: submission done
            * FK: can be changed, if someone provides fb on the submissions

        * FK - pydata Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * all submitted
            * for review: in sktime gmail
            * FK: submission done

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * action on all interested: collect options for submission, DL 1st September
            * FK: mentees could propose?

        * europython & community sprint

            * action FK: increase attendence slots for coding events
                * advertise europython (linkedin, discord)
                    * Action on all: kindly repost on linkedin

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * dummy vote
            * check reporting results (how)
            * current status: outstanding action - how would reporting on results will work, track for next week or later if JB joins
            * FK: current status?
            * JB has audio problems, we can delay or do async 

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
                    * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
        * action KR - reserved actions, track
            * still ongoing, track

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)
            * MR: lack of time, FK took initiative and drafted sth - will make proposal based on this input before next week if not hand over as we should not delay treasurer issue
            * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4798

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message

        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * draft shared in private channel
            * FK: follow up current post with dedicated post
            * action FK: new post on user registration

    * action UO - create an active pipeline for posts
        * FK: should provide more details on action
        * UO: gather posts from community, no response yet. Looked through posts online (~15), many have errors. Therefore, stuck with writing out posts. Sent though material mail
        * action on all: review content from UO mail - DL: track during 1-2 week but not hard DL
        * action on all: contribute content
        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform -> track on new agenda point
        * action UO: setup meeting

* action KR: organise a meeting for Franz, Sagar, CC  Marc + Kiril
    * action KR: will reach out today track to next week

* action FK: FK opens an issue to decide on hosting data sets
    * FK: done, see below
    * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4754

* action FK - open issue to discuss hosting options
    * action KR, JB - input proposals
        * track for next week

+ FK: user registration for showcasing projects
    + Action on FK: put it at CC
    + clarification: look into user registration forms on potential for showcases
    + FK: not done, trac

+ Action on UO: check for copyrights on youtube videos
    + UO: looked into this, as on YT public domain, can share. Worry is where pydata alignment, if they will be willing for the material to be used by us
    + FK: action? add video?
    + UO: cannot add to own yt but can make linkedin post that links to pydata video
    + FK: decission n2 related to linkedin pipeline populating approved so UO ok with posting
  
5. scheduling
    * EuroPython
        * prep - who/when
        * postponed until relevant people are available, Kiril will potentially present, Sagar will potentially present + Franz, CC Marc
        * seperate meeting: Kiril will organise a meeting (action on him)
        * UO + JS will join virtually via Discord
        * Action KR: track
        * HZ (Hamza): could help/attend - picked up tickets for virtual attendance so will participate
    * governance - statutes, elections
        * outstanding action: sync with MR, plan
        * MR, FK, JS: meet 10th July past 6 berlin time

6. conferences - update

    * FK - europython sprint, community sprint
        * reminder of attendance
        * reminder: book flight
        * Covered by 5, skip


    * FK - voting/election design
        * action all - give this a thorough thought
            * checks & balances
            * election modus
            * risks, failure modes, arbitration

4. CoRise
    - UO: demo/explainer about CoRise platform (https://corise.com/) for which he is instruction. Courses are time-bounded (2 to 4 week normally), project-based and instructor-led. Courses are free and paid - positive towards free courses as they populate/disseminate their platform. IP becomes theirs, main drawback.
  
7. AOB

- MR: reached out to fugue but comms dropped off might be good to not let it die
- Action UO: reach out to content creator which made colab notebooks that are good quality but are currently throwing errors. FK proposed to bring in to repo to be able to test it
