
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-06-09

**Date:** 
09/06/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, MR, UO, JB

**Minuting:** FK

Moderator: MR

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/GQJy87zYQH2wljr5pQv4Jg)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

MR has hard stop at 30, so move to the top items involving MR:
ODSC and tresuerer role

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-06-05 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230605-meeting.md

3. B Bluhm - contribution to ODSC, mlflavors
    * scheduled here prevent guest participant waiting

4. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * not done, track
    * actions re conferences
        * action all: think about topics for Prague (Aug submission), Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * action FK - post topics in a thread, default suggested to submit all; discussion to be had internal
            * update: submission deadline now June 18
        * action MR - pydata Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
        * action MR - check databricks "ai summit", in US, keep on radar?
    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * action JB: set up mock vote for testing
            * action FK: give JB any rights etc he needs on discord
            * not here - track, revisit
        * KR - reserved action, track
    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        * opened PR for call to action on landing page for user registration
        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * track this
    * action JS - investigate replicablility of securepoll to sktime: internal voting and decision making (anon), polling, elections (council internal and board with external contributor voters)
        * This is the documentation for the polling - https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:SecurePoll; https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/SecurePoll
        * requires wikipedia page and extension, some work to set up
        * maybe not great for sktime use case
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues
            * JB should also add easypoll takeaway here
    * action JS - draft statutes
    * action FK - contact agreed mentors


4. scheduling
    * summer programme meetings begin

5. summer internships
    * update
        * see above, kick-off is now most important
    * planning, mentors
        * FK will contact mentors to set up regular schedule

6. MR/FK - treasurer role and finances
    * there will now be expenditures - interns
    * budget should be published, transparent (per code of conduct)
    * proposal: treasurer role
        * writes up monthly budget sheet - income, expenditures
        * including sktime affiliated funds
    * MR proposal (conditional):
        * this must also include recent expenditures in 2023
        * e.g., legal costs, open collective
        * i.e. de-facto budgets for past months

7. conferences - update
    * ODSC Europe 2023
        * in prep
        * featuring mlflavors (recently released) notebook bz B Bluhm, replaced mlflow interface notebook
    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
        * track speakers
    * applications (various)

8. Ugo - community outreach

    * discussion of proposal
        * see internal voting thread
    * decision period open now

9. governance working group
    * JS - statutes (track)
    * user registration PR
    * FK: need to work out voting/election

10. AOB

## Notes

1. Review of agenda points

MR has hard stop at 30, so move to the top items involving MR:
ODSC and tresuerer role

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-06-05 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230605-meeting.md

3. B Bluhm - contribution to ODSC, mlflavors
    * scheduled here prevent guest participant waiting
    * FK gives update on communication with B Bluhm re participation in ODSC notebook creation
        * B Bluhm released mlflavours which is sktime mlflow integration as a submodule, linkedin post 2 days ago
        * mlflow deployment was planned part of ODSC 2023
        * FK contacted B Bluhm re giving credit

4. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * not done, track
    * actions re conferences
        * action all: think about topics for Prague (Aug submission), Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * action FK - post topics in a thread, default suggested to submit all; discussion to be had internal
            * update: submission deadline now June 18
            * posted, done. to discuss
        * action MR - pydata Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * reached out but no reply yet
            * track
        * action MR - check databricks "ai summit", in US, keep on radar?
            * long time frame, reopen when relevant again
    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * action JB: set up mock vote for testing
            * action FK: give JB any rights etc he needs on discord
            * JB will send followup message
        * KR - reserved action, track
            * not done, track
    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        * opened PR for call to action on landing page for user registration
        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * not done, track
    * action JS - investigate replicablility of securepoll to sktime: internal voting and decision making (anon), polling, elections (council internal and board with external contributor voters)
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
            * issues opened
            * track until decision
    * action JS - draft statutes
        * ongoing, track
    * action FK - contact agreed mentors for summer internships
        * Anirban, Benedikt reached (followup)
        * Cuong not reached, track; FK action try again
        * track - ensure scheduling is completed

6. MR/FK - treasurer role and finances
    * moved up here due to MR participation & hard cutoff for MR at 30 past
    * there will now be expenditures - interns
    * budget should be published, transparent (per code of conduct)
    * proposal: treasurer role
        * writes up monthly budget sheet - income, expenditures
        * including sktime affiliated funds
    * MR proposal (conditional):
        * this must also include recent expenditures in 2023
        * e.g., legal costs, open collective
        * i.e. de-facto budgets for past months
    * quick discussion
        * UO: where is treasurer role domiciled?
        * FK: for now informal, sktime not incorporated
        * if incorporated (non-profit/charity), can move to formal role
    * action: MR to draft and put to async. Discussion to follow this.

7. conferences - update
    * moved to top due to MR
    * ODSC Europe 2023
        * in prep
        * featuring mlflavors (recently released) notebook bz B Bluhm, replaced mlflow interface notebook
    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
        * track speakers
    * applications (various)

4. scheduling
    * FK: summer programme meetings begin
    * not all slots fixed yet - mentors slow to respond

5. summer internships
    * update
        * see above, kick-off is now most important
    * planning, mentors
        * FK will contact mentors to set up regular schedule

8. Ugo - community outreach

    * discussion of proposal
        * see internal voting thread
    * decision period open now
    * FK suggestion: fast track on 1, 2, 4 (3 days); KR, JB condone fast track

9. governance working group
    * JS - statutes (track)
        * JS sent templates and examples
        * still working on draft
    * user registration PR
        * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4675
        * any feedback, suggestions for improvement?
    * FK: need to work out voting/election
        * wikimedia based design https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/52
        * feedback form wikimedia rep is posted here too
  

10. AOB
