
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-12-19

**Date:** 
19/12/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, MR, JS, UO, KR (from 5:20)

**Minuting:** MR

**Moderator:** FK

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication vote
        * open until Dec 12

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
        * shared, and also sent
        * track for response

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)


4. Conference planning update
    * pydata global debrief
    * sklearn sprint

5. next steps gov - JS, FK


7. MR: brainstorm community events

8. FK: JB treasurer check-in?
    * 2023 statements
    * fundraising
    * 2024 projections (if any)


10. AOB


## Minutes

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

* 3 sets to review (see below): MR, JS, FK, agree to minutes, nothing to add
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20231031-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20231121-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20231205-meeting.md

* Jana suggestion: automatica approval after 1 month?
    * MR, FK - good idea
    * action Jana - open vote on this in decision channel

3. Review of actions
    * delayed publication vote
        * open until Dec 12
        * closed with agreenent
        * FK: where to document this?
            * Appendix to minutes, see below

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
        * shared, and also sent
        * Still no response:  continue tracking
        * FK: follow up now? JS agrees, FK will reach out again

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)
        * Drop above action as of 21-11 minutes

4. Conference/event update
    * pydata global debrief
        * FK: both presentation went well. 
            * Tutorial was 2nd highest attendance (~200 participants) - FK had to cover some point but did not get there in time, Benedikt covered and went well
            * "sktime saga": good feedback from other projects in similar situations, in particular sklearn group
    * sklearn sprint
        * FK: meet with sklearn people in Paris and idea of joint sprint came up, sometime in spring. Located somewhere in France; unformied but great proposal from them. Technical integration (skbase - design, skproba - not covered by sklearn) would be a good topic to cover.
        * Details/logistics unclear at the moment, continue to track
        * KR asks about details of scikit-learn incorporation; FK on their incorporation model (see link below): 
        * https://scikit-learn.fondation-inria.fr/home/ - OS project, non-profit/IRO sub-incorpoation (FK - afaik); new body "probabl" - co-owned for-profit; relation between two currently in shaping
        * FK: sklearn (Goupil) suggested connect with Gael Varoquaux 

5. next steps gov - JS, FK
    (reserved)
    
action JS - summarize in private channel

6. MR: brainstorm community events

* moved to developer meeting (Dec 22 @ 4PM ~30 mins)

7. FK: JB treasurer check-in?
    * 2023 statements
    * fundraising
    * 2024 projections (if any)

* action FK - contact JB re commitments of role

8. AOB
    * KR: idea about sktime sessions at Distance University in Germany - good demographic as students are eager to break into the industry
        * action KR: send email to check if sktime session are feasible - track for next time

next meeting Jan 9

#### appendix A - delayed publication 

Background
Sometimes decisions within the sktime project involve sensitive information that necessitates confidentiality for a specific period. However, the decision should always be made public to enforce transparency. To address this, we propose the implementation of a mechanism for decision making that allows for the delayed announcement of decisions. This balances the need for transparency with the requirement to protect time-sensitive information.

Proposed Procedure
Initial Public Notification
When a reserved decision is under consideration, an initial public announcement will be made in the meeting notes of the council.

Confidential Decision Period
During the confidential decision period, details of the decision, including sensitive information, will be discussed and documented in the minutes. This period allows for thorough consideration without immediate public disclosure.

Scheduled Announcement
These minutes will include a clearly defined time when the decision will be made public and the reason for this period.

Public Disclosure
Upon reaching the scheduled announcement time, all relevant information and minutes pertaining to the decision will be made public. If the minutes still contain sensitive information that is not time bound (e.g. personal sensitive data) this can be redacted. These redactions should be kept as a minimum and should not be used to obscure details of the decision process.
