
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-07-07


**Date:** 
07/07/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, MR, UO

**Minuting:** FK

**Moderator**: MR

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/LUsu_aLHSDWPg9ofJ3urzg)


## Agenda

1. Review of Agenda



2. Review of minutes 
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230623-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230630-meeting.md



3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4799
        * FK: made proposal, some parts might be contentious due to adapting time limit
        * action on all: review the proposal on unclear sections & time limit

    * actions re conferences

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * action on all interested: collect options for submission, DL 1st September
            * FK: mentees could propose?

        * europython & community sprint

            * action FK: increase attendence slots for coding events
                * advertise europython (linkedin, discord)
                    * Action on all: kindly repost on linkedin

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * JB to update on usability for internal votes
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
                    * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
        * action KR - reserved actions, track
            * still ongoing, track

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)
            * MR: lack of time, FK took initiative and drafted sth - will make proposal based on this input before next week if not hand over as we should not delay treasurer issue
            * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4798

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message

        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * draft shared in private channel
            * FK: follow up current post with dedicated post
            * action FK: new post on user registration

    * action UO - create an active pipeline for posts
        * action on all: review content from UO mail - DL: track during 1-2 week but not hard DL
        * action on all: contribute content
        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform -> track on new agenda point
        * action UO: setup meeting

* action KR: organise a meeting for Franz, Sagar, CC  Marc + Kiril
    * action KR: will reach out today track to next week

* action KR, JB - input proposals for data set hosting
    * action KR, JB - input proposals
    * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4754
        * track for next week

+ FK: user registration for showcasing projects
    + Action on FK: put it at CC
    + clarification: look into user registration forms on potential for showcases

+ Action on UO: linkedin post on pydata video
  
  
* Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
    * Alexandra Amidon
    * Joanna Lenczuk
    * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
        * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
        * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
* action MR: follow up on fugue collaboration

4. scheduling
    * EuroPython
        * reminder: July 8
        * FK, MR, KR, SM
    * governance - statutes, elections
        * reminder: July 10 (past 5pm UTC)
        * MR, FK, JS

5. FK - finances

* treasurer - timelines, actions?
* admin of open collective
    * ensuring OC sktime T&C in line with sktime decision making procedures
    * individuals to join OC admins, requires at least 2
* treasurer responsibility includes revenue generation planning? academic, commercial (maintain vision of neutral space)
* internships


6. conferences - update

    * europython sprint, community sprint
        * reminder of attendance
        * reminder: book flight, hotel
        * reminder: ticket registration
    * anything we can line up?


7. governance

    * FK - voting/election design
        * reminder action all - give this a thorough thought
            * checks & balances
            * election modus
            * risks, failure modes, arbitration


8. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of Agenda

* move finance topic to start after actions

2. Review of minutes 
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230623-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230630-meeting.md

* agreed all attending
* due to low attendance put into action channels to review & put comments or approve

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4799
        * FK: made proposal, some parts might be contentious due to adapting time limit
        * action on all: review the proposal on unclear sections & time limit
            * hasn't happened due to holidays, track

    * actions re conferences

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * action on all interested: collect options for submission, DL 1st September
            * FK: mentees could propose?
                * track & highlight at community sprint

        * europython & community sprint

            * action FK: increase attendence slots for coding events
                * advertise europython (linkedin, discord)
                    * Action on all: kindly repost on linkedin
                        * done
                * action FK: one more linkedin post (this WE)

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * JB to update on usability for internal votes
                * blocker: unclear how to read out results (person other than who set up vote)
                * JB has contacted easypoll support
                * track
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
                * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
            * in preparation for governance meeting July 10
            * FK tries to fill in gaps in provisions till Monday
            * track, keep open
        * action KR - reserved actions, track
            * opened: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
            * no longer reserved since public
            * for discussion and decision on reserved channel (async)
            * action all: review and discuss

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)
            * MR: lack of time, FK took initiative and drafted sth - will make proposal based on this input before next week if not hand over as we should not delay treasurer issue
            * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/4798
            * MR -> proposal for simplified provisions on decision making channel on discord
            * discussion in agenda point below

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message

        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * draft shared in private channel
            * FK: follow up current post with dedicated post
            * action FK: new post on user registration
            * drafted in social-media channel
                * awaiting input
                * action all to check

    * action UO - create an active pipeline for posts
        * action on all: review content from UO mail - DL: track during 1-2 week but not hard DL
            * invite to notion, check inbox
            * not done, track
        * action on all: contribute content
        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform -> track on new agenda point
        * action UO: setup meeting
            * reply: corise currently having internal discussion, will get back to us (potentially)
            * track

* action KR: organise a meeting for Franz, Sagar, CC Marc + Kiril
    * action KR: will reach out today track to next week
    * done, set up for Sat July 8, 1pm UTC

* action KR, JB - input proposals for data set hosting
    * action KR, JB - input proposals
    * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4754
        * not done, track

+ FK: user registration for showcasing projects
    + Action on FK: put it at CC
    + clarification: look into user registration forms on potential for showcases
    + couple registrations so far, most positive, but all in individual roles
    + action FK: repeat post registration link

+ Action on UO: linkedin post on pydata video
    + done
  
* Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
    * Alexandra Amidon
    * Joanna Lenczuk
    * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
        * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
        * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
    * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
        * wait and track

* action MR: follow up on fugue collaboration
    * not done - perhaps best to wait for community roadmap
    * FK will follow up, mention roadmap

4. scheduling
    * EuroPython
        * reminder: July 8, 1pm UTC
        * FK, MR?, KR, SM
    * governance - statutes, elections
        * reminder: July 10 (past 5pm UTC)
        * MR, FK, JS


5. FK, MR - finances

* treasurer - timelines, actions?
    * MR opened simplified proposal for decision
    * FK: timing is such that treasurer not in place for 1st internship payment under standard process
        * so either, speed up decision, or decide on disbursement without treasurer
        * MR: treasurer is for transparency, disbursement is already committed
    * 1 week discussion period -> resolve this async

* MR needs to leave due to time restriction
    * discuss rest async as MR needs to input
* FK will take action to put remainder of this into async discussion space (as MR needed to leave)

* admin of open collective
    * ensuring OC sktime T&C in line with sktime decision making procedures
    * individuals to join OC admins, requires at least 2
* treasurer responsibility includes revenue generation planning? academic, commercial (maintain vision of neutral space)
* internships


6. conferences - update

    * europython sprint, community sprint
        * reminder of attendance
        * reminder: book flight, hotel
        * reminder: ticket registration

    * anything we can line up?
        * short discussion on options


7. governance

    * FK - voting/election design
        * reminder action all - give this a thorough thought
            * checks & balances
            * election modus
            * risks, failure modes, arbitration

8. AOB
