# sktime community meeting notes 2023-10-31

**Date:** 
31/10/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** JB, MR, JS, FK

**Minuting:** JB

**Moderator**: MR


## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication draft
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action MR: put this up for voting, write final form


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)

4. elections comms pack

5. treasurer role actions


6. conference planning update
    * pydata NY
    * pydata global
    * any other

7. AOB
    * MR: brainstorm community events?


## Minutes

1. Review of agenda
    no additional points

2. Review of minutes

    * minutes of 2023-10-17
    * MR, FK: ok
    * Jana: just having a look

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication draft
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action MR: put this up for voting, write final form
            * not done, carry over to next week


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
        * not in attendance, carry over

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
        * not done, carry over
        
    * (missing) action FK: elections communication pack draft
        * partially done, for internal review
        * added point 4 for discussion
        * idea by Franz, way for anyone who contributes to the community to have ability to have a role in sktime
          * would enable sktime to have a truly "open source" governance model, where anyone can freely participate
          * people must accept github invites in order to see repo, since it's currently private
          * JS:  wanted to know what positions would be open
          * All 7 of the council seats would be open for election
          * Action CC members:  double check github access so we can all see the private repository

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)

4. elections comms pack

https://github.com/sktime/elections


5. treasurer role actions
    * Action JB: go over open collective, come up with a draft for how Treasurer position should be handled
    * Would make sense as a github issue to put together for others to review

6. conference planning update
    * pydata NY - Nov 3
        * JB:  presented link to pydata presentation, getting updated daily in preparation for talk
    * pydata global - Dec 6-8
    * any other

7. AOB
    * MR: brainstorm community events?
        * JB: user case driven event
        * Action MR: brainstorm post for online/in-person event ideas?
