# sktime community meeting notes 2023-11-21

**Date:** 
21/11/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, KR, MR, OU, BH

**Minuting:** MR

**Moderator:** FK


## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication draft
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action MR: put this up for voting, write final form


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)

4. Elections
    * comms draft
    * sklearn meeting

5. Conference planning update

    * pydata global

7. MR: brainstorm community events?

8. FK: JB treasurer check-in?
    * 2023 statements
    * fundraising
    * 2024 projections (if any)

9. sklearn meeting

10. AOB

## Minutes

1. Review of agenda
    * All ok

2. Review of minutes
    * 2023-10-31:  MR, FK, KR: ok

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication draft
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action MR: Done on draft, waiting for ok to go to vote
        * https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1101599945842237491/1173921014284025886 on council discord
        * action MR: put up for vote


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * UO: Joanna replied, info in discord
        * UO: getting material (notebooks) ready by early December
        * FK: move Joanna's nb to sktime repo?
        * action UO: PR to add nb
        * drop action on reach out to Alexandra Amidon
    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
        * FK: continued actions on reserved channels

    * action to track: idea of internal calendar
        * (general idea to track)
        * drop tracking, will add to community events (if many events would make sense)

4. Elections
    * comms draft
        * FK: next steps? Technical points like links, visibility, linkedin post, etc
        * FK: any remaining open questions or concerns?
        * MR: concern on engagement, but not necesarily related to any changes
        * FK: keep open for 1/2 weeks, sync with pydata global?
        * KR, BH, MR: agree 
        * action FK: *increasingly annoying* reminders to look into this
        * action FK: plan timeline; communicate arround pydata, vote middle dec, key to catch announcements still on working time

5. Conference planning update
    * pydata NY debrief: described in PM but not for everyone
        * action JB: track
    * pydata global
        * FK: 2 slots (fully virtual)
            * 1: Generic tutorial & new features
                * Contacted core devs for tutorials, should be easy due to enough material
            * 2: sktime saga talk
                * Review material meeting: 28th Nov, 5th Dec (@5PM UTC)
                * action FK: draft before above dates

6. Reserved item

7. MR: brainstorm community events?
    * Not covered as meeting over time, track for next meeting

8. FK: JB treasurer check-in?
    * 2023 statements
    * fundraising
    * 2024 projections (if any)
    * Not covered as meeting over time, track for next meeting 

9. sklearn meeting
    * Not covered as meeting over time, track for next meeting

10. AOB
