
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-06-16

**Date:** 
16/06/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** BH, FK, Hazrul Akmal, KR, MR, UO, JB (arrives 15 past, at his action point)

**Minuting:** FK

Moderator: KR

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/LUsu_aLHSDWPg9ofJ3urzg)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-06-09 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230609-meeting.md

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * not done, track
    * actions re conferences
        * action all: think about topics for Prague (Aug submission), Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * options posted, to discuss priorities (thread)
        * action MR - pydata Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * track

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * issues opened
                * track until decision
        * action JS - draft statutes
            * action JB: set up mock vote for testing
        * KR - reserved action, track
            * not done, track

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        * opened PR for call to action on landing page for user registration
        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * not done, track

        * ongoing, track
    * action FK - contact agreed mentors for summer internships


4. scheduling
    * EuroPython


5. summer internships
    * FK - update
    * planning, mentors
        * FK will contact mentors to set up regular schedule


7. conferences - update
    * ODSC Europe 2023
        * MR, FK - debrief
    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
        * track speakers
    * EuroPython - community sprint, dev days
        * sprint approved
        * FK: virtual track?
        * use as dev days?

8. Ugo - community outreach

    * discussion of proposal
        * see internal voting thread
        * 3 and 5 still open
    * outreach plan?

9. governance working group
    * JS - statutes (track)
    * FK - voting/election design
    * JB - easypoll for voting

10. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of agenda points

* confusion about agenda location
* FK updated link, moved to new hackmd because:
* hackmd has max character size and was reached in last instance. Link to old hackmd instance at bottom, and anyway all minutes are public on GitHub
* no one posted agenda for today on GitHub, was mistake - FK quickly updated

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-06-09 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230609-meeting.md
       * agreed, closed

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * not done, track
    * actions re conferences
        * action all: think about topics for Prague (Aug submission), Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * options posted, to discuss priorities (thread)
            * thread "topics for pydata Amsterdam submissions"
            * discuss in "conferences" item
                * default action would be to submit in order of priority currently in the thread
        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * still todo, track
            * this is actually pycon, not pydata (corrected in agenda/minutes)

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * dummy vote for testing was setup by JB, seems to work
            * KR: the vote seems to reset each time I click
            * FK: partial state is not visible (so resets vote panel to original appearance after vote)
                * JB confirms
            * FK: not seen reporting outcome yet
                * JB - outcome is not available publicly or easily
                * FK - should we have demo on how to read results?
                * JB can do end of meeting or video/screenshare
                * FK - end of meeting to show? all in agreement (if time)
                    * added to AOB

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * issues opened
                * track until decision
        * action JS - draft statutes
            * absent, update async
            * not done, will do
            * JS will have time next 2 weeks for this
        * KR - reserved actions, track
            * ongoing, track

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)
            * ongoing, track


    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        * opened PR for call to action on landing page for user registration
            * forgot merge, will do
            * no reviews (approval?)
        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * not done, track
            * vision statement was publicized at ODSC ("what is sktime" - community ascet)

    * action FK - contact agreed mentors for summer internships
        * done

4. scheduling
    * EuroPython
        * prep - who/when
    * governance - needed?
        * FK: think we should finalize model, elections, plan
        * who/when or async?
            * MR would like to participate
            * MR proposes breather after recent things, conferences and all - to go async now and revisit sync later
            * KR would be ok with either (FK suggestion to meet, MR suggestion to pause briefly)
            * FK - agrees with MR, was busy time, JS also had busy time, would agree to have 1 (or more) week breather, revisit next meet (June 23) for scheduling
                * FK: puts elections/constitution somewhere Aug/Sep?

5. summer internships
    * FK - update
        * interns (paid scheme) onboarded
    * planning, mentors
        * mentors onboarded
    * mentoring programme applications need review
        * FK, JB volunteer
    * Hazrul: question regarding sktime assets & transparency
        * re lawyer costs, how paid?
        * MR: that's precisely the remit of the budgeting proposal, this needs to be published completely (i.e., which sktime associated assets there are, where lawyers were paid from)
        * FK: this will be transparent later - short answer: paid from FK's personal assets
            * expects relevant material (e.g., financial statements, invoices) to be published as part of budget reporting process (of sktime and affiliated assets)
            * that's the process that MR has an action to set up decision/proposal for
        * Hazrul: thanks for clarification

7. conferences - update
    * ODSC Europe 2023
        * MR, FK - debrief
            * MR: were prepared in advanced, ironing out content still last week
            * was very popular, room was overfilled (ca 50), could have probably filled room with >100
            * so far positive feedback
            * FK: we will receive feedback form ODSC through app/rating system
            * Hazrul: thinks workshop went smoothly and was very nice presentation
            * room was full and a bit cramped
            * lots of Q&A
            * opportunity for improvement: more gaps for Q&A, too much material?
            * overall positive

    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
        * track speakers
        * Europython is 17-21 July

    * EuroPython - community sprint, dev days
        * sprint approved
            * week-end, 22-23 July
        * FK: virtual track?
        * use as dev days?
            * action FK: find out about need for ticket to attend if only attending sprint (not conf)
        * MR: we maybe shouldn't call it dev days to make it more inviting for new contribs
            * community days?
            * user onboarding
            * new contributor session
        * FK: current status
            * MR cannot travel, but virtually
            * SM plans to travel
            * KR - regardless of speaker, would join 22-23
        * action FK: put attendance into the public actions channel
            * sub-decisions on event in decisions channel


8. UO - community outreach

    * sent out discord announcement re writeups
    * is now content admin on Linkedin
    * working on posts & articles, ETA Monday
        * working ahead to fill Linkedin post pipe
    * phase 2 planning - meetups
    * working on improving docs to make more approachable
    * re blog - medium etc, hashnode preference; medium is paywalled
        * MR: twitter to medium are not paywalled
    * FK: re meetups, could use europython sprint
        * proceed in async threads to explore (see previous item)
    * discussion of proposal
        * see internal voting thread
        * 3 and 5 still open

9. governance working group
    * as discussed - moved to next week

    moved to next week:

    * JS - statutes (track)
    * FK - voting/election design
    * JB - easypoll for voting

10. AOB

    * presentation of easypoll voting system by JB
