# sktime community meeting notes 2023-06-23

**Date:** 
23/06/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, JS, KR, UO

**Minuting:** JS

Moderator: KR

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/LUsu_aLHSDWPg9ofJ3urzg)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-06-16 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230616-meeting.md

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * not done, track
    * actions re conferences
        * pydata Prague (Aug submission)
            * deadline June 25
            * topics
        * pydata Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * all submitted
            * for review: in sktime gmail

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * still todo, track

        * europython & community sprint
            * action FK: find out about need for ticket to attend if only attending sprint (not conf)
                * sprints are free to attend!
                * https://ep2023.europython.eu/sprints
            * action FK: put attendance into the public actions channel
                * sub-decisions on event in decisions channel

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * dummy vote
            * check reporting results (how)

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * issues opened
                * track until decision
        * action JS - draft statutes
            * 1st draft finished
            * meeting with FK, shared with MR
            * open questions to be shared today
        * KR - reserved actions, track
            * ongoing, track

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)
            * ongoing, track

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        * opened PR for call to action on landing page for user registration

        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * draft shared in private channel

    
4. scheduling
    * EuroPython
        * prep - who/when
    * governance - statutes, elections

5. FK - proposed expenditure - GitHub LFS
    * timelines
        * reading June 23-30 CoB
        * decision June 30 - July 7 CoB
    * expenditure: 60 USD yearly for 1 tier
        * 50 GB file size, 50 GB monthly bandwidth
        * from sktime open collective
    * context: data repositories have become unreliable
        * occasional changes, no deprecation message
        * impacts users as it suddenly breaks loaders
    * potential technical solutions:
        * option A: fallback - from mirror only if primary source fails
        * option B: buffer - always from mirror, keep mirror update
        * both solutions require our own file hosting
    * GitHub LFS - GitHub based file hosting of large files
        * in line with "open" spirit - anyone can clone and mirror!
        * primary repositories are not easy to replicate
    * affected data repos are ca 10 GB
        * up to 3GB is free on GitHub LFS
    * alternatives: any file hoster (cost usually starts between 1-5 GB size)


7. conferences - update

    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
        * track speakers
        * track attendance
        * Europython is 17-21 July
    * FK - europython sprint, community sprint
        * reminder of attendance
        * linkedin post

8. governance working group

    * JS - statutes (track)
    * FK - voting/election design
    * JB - easypoll for voting

9. UO - community outreach

    * UO - updates
        * linkedin posts
        * blog medium

10. AOB

## Notes 

1. Review of Agenda

* no changes necessary
* everyone will stay until the end

2. Review of minutes 

* last week's minutes are reviewed and accepted

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * ongoing (wip), track
    * actions re conferences
        * all - pydata Prague (Aug submission)
            * deadline June 25
            * topics: submit the same list as for Amsterdam, but not the same presentation
        * FK - pydata Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * all submitted
            * for review: in sktime gmail

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * still todo, track

        * europython & community sprint
            * action FK: find out about need for ticket to attend if only attending sprint (not conf)
                * sprints are free to attend!
                    * need to register attendance, but is free for anyone there physically
                * https://ep2023.europython.eu/sprints
            * action FK: increase attendence slots for coding events
                * FK - by accident put into private actions channel - will advertise on discord in public channel
                    * action FK - advertise in public channel this time
                * sub-decisions on event in decisions channel
                * FK - in goverance/actions-reserved, Background info regarding Sagar's attendence: Visa application for london didn't work, flight was booked, insurance on flight, voucher can be used for a new flight so that he can attend europython, Sagar wants to come; Kiril and his wife could also attend (will confirm with his wife but want to attend coding events)

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * dummy vote
            * check reporting results (how)
            * current status: outstanding action - how would reporting on results will work, track for next week or later if JB joins

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * track until decision
                    * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action JS - draft statutes
            * 1st draft finished
                * action JS - will be shared in community council
            * meeting with FK, shared with MR
            * open questions to be shared today
        * action KR - reserved actions, track
            * still ongoing, track

        * action MR - draft and put up for discussion treasurer/budgeting proposal (see June 9 for high-level summary)
            * ongoing, track -> Marc not there

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        * opened PR for call to action on landing page for user registration
            * done, merged

        * draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * draft shared in private channel
            * create an active pipeline for posts

* action KR: organise a meeting for Franz, Sagar, CC  Marc + Kiril 
* action FK: FK opens an issue to decide on hosting data sets


    
4. scheduling
    * EuroPython
        * prep - who/when
        * postponed until relevant people are available, Kiril will potentially present, Sagar will potentially present + Franz, CC Marc
        * seperate meeting: Kiril will organise a meeting (action on him)
        * UO + JS will join virtually via Discord
    * governance - statutes, elections
        * meet when everyone is back from holidays 
        * Need JS; want to join MR, FK
        * Sync up with MR async 
        * everyone has to read through document

5. FK - proposed expenditure - GitHub LFS
    * timelines
        * reading June 23-30 CoB
        * decision June 30 - July 7 CoB
    * expenditure: 60 USD yearly for 1 tier
        * 50 GB file size, 50 GB monthly bandwidth
        * from sktime open collective
    * context: data repositories have become unreliable
        * occasional changes, no deprecation message
        * impacts users as it suddenly breaks loaders
    * potential technical solutions:
        * option A: fallback - from mirror only if primary source fails
        * option B: buffer - always from mirror, keep mirror update
        * both solutions require our own file hosting
    * GitHub LFS - GitHub based file hosting of large files
        * in line with "open" spirit - anyone can clone and mirror!
        * primary repositories are not easy to replicate
    * affected data repos are ca 10 GB
        * up to 3GB is free on GitHub LFS
    * alternatives: any file hoster (cost usually starts between 1-5 GB size)


Context by FK
* interfaces have become unreliable 
* general idea is to have a mirror or buffer that we control, if something goes down it doesn't immediately hit the package
* it requires us to post our own files, remove functionality for access 
* cost isn't high, if one uses GitHub it costs 60 USD a year -> file hosting in GitHub 50 GB
    * total amount of downloads: it is not that much
    * but can only use it as a buffer or fallback -> will require to pay 60 USD


Discussion 
+ KR: idea to use another service that can be used with a cloud provider 
+ technical solution for other option through domain, bucket would be a subdomain 
+ data sets are around 10 GB when compressed -> could be tricky with S3
+ JB: omit part of the data set
+ FK: if lower number it has a higher chance of being disrupted -> follow-up on issue

* action FK - open issue to discuss hosting options
    * GitHub LFS
    * S3 buckets using sktime.net domain, caching
        * JB is familiar with that
        * KR: works with http/https, no complex interface
* FK withdraws proposal, need to explore options better
    * open issue action to discuss
    * JB, KR will add background

7. conferences - update

    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
        * track speakers: FK, SM, KR
        * track attendance:
            * in person - FK, SM, KR
            * virtual - JB, UO, JS, MR
        * Europython is 17-21 July, sprints 22-23 July
        * we already discussed most of it in the actions, dev days on weekend, JB: it is a distance, he could join virtual events, JB would join coferences in US 
    * FK - europython sprint, community sprint
        * reminder of attendance
        * linkedin post
        * already discussed with regards to actions

8. governance working group

    * JS - statutes (track)
        * Shared the link to the document with CC
        * Important to get it right from the start, hard to change afterwards
    * FK - voting/election design
        * action all - give this a thorough thought
            * checks & balances
            * election modus
            * risks, failure modes, arbitration
    * JB - easypoll for voting
        * push to next week

9. UO - community outreach

    * UO - updates
        * linkedin posts
        * blog medium

Overview by UO
+ waiting for feedback from Discord members
+ by Tuesday UO would put up links and check if articles are working properly, in some articles classes were deprecated - will put it in reserved channel 
+ articles will be published only in around 2 weeks, within two weeks articles should be approved and continue production of articles on a rolling pages and continue to see how the engagement will be going on
+ Youtube channel: get more videos - accomodate people
    * FK - is there sth missing here?
        * pydata Seattle 2023
        * pydata Global 2022
        * dev days 2022

Disscusion
+ FK: user registration for showcasing projects
    + Action on FK: put it at CC
+ KR: copyright issue? -> who has the copyright for videos 
    + Action on UO: check for copyrights


10. AOB

