# sktime community meeting notes 2023-04-14

**Date:** 
14/04/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** 
- FK
- JS
- KR
- JB
- MR
- New contrib/user: Luny (Discord handle)

**Minuting:**
- MR

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-03-31
   * 2023-03-24
   * 2023-03-17 after moving comments to end
       * mloning input issue: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/50 (opened on 2023-03-31)

3. Review of outstanding actions
   * action all: pydata London contribution (consider opportunity)
   * action all: OSDC Europe contribution (consider opportunity)
      * involvement in presentation, blog post 
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
   * action FK: sktime.net emails

5. OSDC/blog post

6. FK: reserved item

4. scheduling
   * internship planning

7. procedure standing agreement - decision making

   * async communication - how to use discord announcements
     https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
   * fast-track and urgent decision making
     https://hackmd.io/jIWGs789SluEHr3_3NVbuA

8. conferences
   * FK: update Seattle
       * Sagar cannot travel
       * currently only one presenter -> FK
           * better: 2 or 3
           * how to deal with this?
       * Jonathan can jump in
           * travel funding? informal discussion
   * update ODSC
       * blog post
       * participation

9. update from governance working group
   * summary of status
   * summary of actions
   * next meetings?

10. admin points
    * financial infrastructure - open collective
       * overview and next steps 
    * `sktime` digital infrastructure access sharing
       * happening async
       * "moderator" role

11. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of agenda points
- MR: bump ODSC

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-03-31
        * FK: reviewed main points
        * JS: Is first point reviewed (i.e. discussion between MR and ML (markus))? Also time is defined as german time
        * KR: suggestion to add timezone to minutes
        * MR: Good representation of what happened
        * FK: Two actions suggested
            * action JS: time-zone needs updated
            * action FK: proactively ping Markus to ensure that minuting is representative of what happened from his point of view
            * link to previous issue on 03-17 minutes https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/50
            * action FK: close issue 50 as two weeks have elapsed
   * 2023-03-24
       * FK: reviewed main points
       * FK: open for comments or if more time needed: no atendee raised need for more time to review or raised comment so review is closed, all agree 
   * 2023-03-17 after moving comments to end
       * mloning input issue: https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/50 (opened on 2023-03-31)
       * FK: Previous Markus issue, no reply as of yet
        * FK: open for comments or if more time needed: no atendee raised need for more time to review or raised comment so review is closed, all agree 

3. Review of outstanding actions
   * action all: pydata London contribution (consider opportunity)
   * action all: OSDC Europe contribution (consider opportunity)
      * involvement in presentation, blog post 
   * action JS: move gov points to hackMD
   * action FK: sktime.net emails
   * action FK: share digital access
  * FK: might be missing some actions, but should cover all.
  * FK: what is action 3 exactly (to JS)?
  * JS: is it move work of GDocs to HackMD?
  * FK: action 3 as not done yet
  * FK: emails sharing actions not closed yet
  * FK: shared creds to gmail (asks fro 2FA on first log)
  * MR: are all creds shared?
  * FK: partially but not complete 
      * action on other council members: Github invites (to others: check spam )
      * action on other council members: Linkedin invite (to other: require connect with FK)
      * action on other council members: readthedocs (to other: account required) 

5. OSDC/blog post

* FK: no changed after MR changes (soft deadline: 14)
* MR: review and send?
* FK: yes, will go over it and send. But this goes into longer editorial process, so no rush on sending it perfectly (ask if have time to edit, i.e. assumptions check out)
* JS: question on point above about pinging markus on minutes (note: minutes retroactively changed to put FK to action point)

6. FK: reserved item

7. procedure standing agreement - decision making

   * async communication - how to use discord announcements
     https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/49
   * fast-track and urgent decision making
     https://hackmd.io/jIWGs789SluEHr3_3NVbuA
     
* FK: two points:
    * Involve async people (Sagar, Kishan)
    * Formalizing urgent decision-making
* All concil memebers action: look into both above and make comments before last week

4. scheduling
   * internship planning
* FK: shared process from previous years; documented in Drive (shared access). Who is intered in contributing to process and review candidates?
    * MR, JS: comment they wont engage
    * KR: asks to get walkthrough
    * Action FK & KR: set up meeting to review process next week

8. conferences
   * FK: update Seattle
       * Sagar cannot travel
       * currently only one presenter -> FK
           * better: 2 or 3
           * how to deal with this?
       * Jonathan can jump in
           * travel funding? informal discussion
   * update ODSC
       * blog post
       * participation

* FK: skip ODSC in interest of time
* FK: only one presenter at Seattle conference
* JB: will update on Monday about participation
* action FK: contact Kishan about ODSC london
* action MR: to update next week if can participate

9. update from governance working group
   * summary of status
   * summary of actions
   * next meetings?

* FK: met twice, went over some question JS prepared. Discussed two actions:
    * Decision table made by JS, action on all to input thoughts 
    * Vision, action on all to input thoughts
    * Wiki model: action on all to input on below issue
        https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/52
* MR: at least one more meeting?
* FK: 1 week time, before friday to have meeting to discuss inputs on Decision table & vision.
* FK: proposed wednesday, review input on this meeting, all agree

10. admin points
    * financial infrastructure - open collective
       * overview and next steps 
    * `sktime` digital infrastructure access sharing
       * happening async
       * "moderator" role
* FK: small ammount of funds in open collective, in past by treasurer role. Open collective is charity that administers financial accounts with charitable purpose - need to accpets T&Cs to be admin - where sponsorship funds have been recieved. In past has been used for deployment infra & travels & dev sprints. Show of hand of interested parties?
* KR: linked to be based in UK?
* FK: no but has to be in Europe (not 100% sure, but is likely, requires check)
* KR: potentially open to it, will look into it with FK in upcomming meeting about interships
* FK: digital infra will be tabled

11. AOB

* JS: connected with lawyer who is contrib to Wiki and may join next week to present their model. Also shared FKs summary/version of Wiki model to sktime
* action JS: see if he can join, if not set up a meeting when he is available
