# sktime community meeting notes

**Date:** 
10/03/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** 
Jonathan Bechtel, Franz Kiraly, Kishan Manani, Kiril Ralinovski, Marc Rovira, Jana Schmidberger

Minuting: FK

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes 2023-02-21, 2023-02-28

3. presentations on best current practice, feedback & options for future governance
    * FK: summary of community Q&As
      [Feb 28](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230228-meeting.md) and [Feb 21](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230221-meeting.md)
    * Jana: overview of research on open source governance and charitable incorporation options
    * FK: design thoughts so far https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/46

4. open discussion on high-level choices, tentative decisions
    * committees and roles; decision making
    * electorate, elections

5. interim/transition council

6. announcements and admin points

7. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of agenda points
agenda confirmed

2. Review of minutes 2023-02-21, 2023-02-28

not everyone who was party to the Q&A sessions is here
participation has been anonymized

3. presentations on best current practice, feedback & options for future governance

3.1 FK: summary of community Q&As
      [Feb 28](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230228-meeting.md) and [Feb 21](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230221-meeting.md)
      
FK: Community Q&A summary (summary of opinions, recounted by FK):

- Positively received by all: wider involvement and representation in gov
- Key requirement users: stability of release pipeline, reliability of package
- Key requirement early career: stability of mentoring programme, opportunity generation
- Policy preferences of users: resource put towards maintenance, bugfixes, testing, scaling/deployment
- Policy preferences of early career: onboarding events, upskilling, mentoring, internships
- Re mloning’s plans to remove sktime from pypi: against everyone’s interest. dependency nightmare. Think most other users will be struck unawares, creates problems in prod
- don’t care about conflicts amongst dev, must be prevented by solid gov in future.
Current conflict, mloning/pypi, etc, only hurts users and community, there is no upside.
- For near future: re-establishing stable governance and release pipeline should be top priority. Options brought up frequently: (1) participative governance, not just developers; (2) hierarchical “dictatorship”. opinions diverged what the best model would be, but all agreed that model should change in one direction or another.
- FK opinion: don’t want to go down dictatorship or corporate route like other packages.
Open model is USP of sktime and core to its vision.

questions-comments?

Kishan: can you explain "dictator" point? does it mean one single person drives development?
FK: no, these projects still have multiple developers, and possibly wider participation. It is more like single point of accountability, e.g., CEO of a company or CTO who has the last say, and makes decisions from a more autocratic standpoint rather than being elected, especially when it's about resource allocation (money, jobs).

charities also can have similar roles (CEO/president, CTO/architect) but usually have a much more open, participative governance model, and are accountable in decision making via charity regulations and statutes

Kiril: what is the model to prevent single person taking control of assets or adverse action?

* FK: pypi - unclear, seems badly design from an IT sec perspective, distribution of responsibility etc; in theory one would want multi-factor/multi-key or separation of duties
* here are some thoughts about IT sec https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/3836
* for organisations, incorporation (charity) gives formal (legal) control of assets - financial, digital
      
3.2 Jana: overview of research on open source governance and charitable incorporation options

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Zxv5dSK3K9CrMyPtJSpzeKo_hIp_kY18-AyDa5ji5EI

Jana: walkthrough through options, research outcomes
doc not final, people should request access
when final, will be moved to GitHub

FK, JB: this looks extremely useful, in general for open source contributors!

3.3  FK: design thoughts so far https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/46

FK: quick walkthrough on timelines; short term vs mid term

4. open discussion on high-level choices, tentative decisions
    * committees and roles; decision making
    * electorate, elections

FK: quick update given on options, out of time, moved to Mar 17

5. interim/transition council

FK: anyone's contribution towards transitioning sktime's governance is appreciated - looking for formal participation in an interim council.

-> general interest from audience
action FK: send information on what responsibilities that would entail, suggested next steps

6. announcements and admin points

deferred to Mar 17

7. AOB
