
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-06-05

**Date:** 
05/06/2023, 4:30pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, JS, KR, MR, UO

**Minuting:** FK

Moderator: KR


[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/GQJy87zYQH2wljr5pQv4Jg)

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-05-26 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230526-meeting.md
   * 2023-05-19 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230519-meeting.md
   * 2023-05-12 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230512-meeting.md

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * not done, track
    * actions re conferences
        * action all: think about topics for Prague (Aug submission), Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * track
    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * action JB: set up mock vote for testing
            * action FK: give JB any rights etc he needs on discord
            * track
        * KR - reserved action, track
    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
    * action JS - investigate replicablility of securepoll to sktime: internal voting and decision making (anon), polling, elections (council internal and board with external contributor voters)

4. scheduling
    * reminder - intern onboarding day

5. summer internships
    * update
    * planning, mentors

6. conferences - update
    * pydata London debrief
    * ODSC Europe 2023
    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
    * applications (various)

7. Ugo - community outreach

8. governane working group
    * JS - governance model - wikimedia update
    * next steps

9. reserved item (MR)

10. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of agenda points

no additions or changes

2. Review of minutes
   * 2023-05-26 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230526-meeting.md
   * 2023-05-19 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230519-meeting.md
   * 2023-05-12 - https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230512-meeting.md

all agreed (KR, JS, FK, MR), no comments.
UO was present on May 26, no comments.
All agreed, all closed.

3. Review of outstanding actions
    * action FK: update doc on gov & decision making to include new discord channels
        * not done, track
    * actions re conferences
        * action all: think about topics for Prague (Aug submission), Amsterdam (early June submission)
            * track
            * FK: we can submit backlog of topics to Amsterdam
                * action FK - post topics in a thread, default suggested to submit all; discussion to be had internal
    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: explore and possibly set up anonymous voting, checking out "easypoll.bot" for next time and report
            * action JB: set up mock vote for testing
            * action FK: give JB any rights etc he needs on discord
            * not here - track, revisit
        * KR - reserved action, track
            * move to end
    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        * opened PR for call to action on landing page for user registration
        * will draft sth on linkedin, suggestion - together with publicizing vision
            * track this
    * action JS - investigate replicablility of securepoll to sktime: internal voting and decision making (anon), polling, elections (council internal and board with external contributor voters)
        * This is the documentation for the polling - https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:SecurePoll; https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/SecurePoll
        * requires wikipedia page and extension, some work to set up
        * maybe not great for sktime use case
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues
            * JB should also add easypoll takeaway here

4. scheduling
    * reminder - intern onboarding day - June 7
        * KR, MR can contribute; KR available after 8:30am UTC Wed, anytime Friday; MR has best availability late afternoon
        * Ugo can contribute if happens on Friday, or Wed after 5
        * FK will check constraints from interns and mentors, next hours
    * reminder - ODSC planning - after this meeting

5. summer internships
    * update
        * see above, kick-off is now most important
    * planning, mentors
        * FK will contact mentors to set up regular schedule

6. conferences - update
    * pydata London debrief
        * positive feedback and interesting questions from audience
        * ca 50-100 attendees, useful technical questions
        * sktime mentioned outside the presentation, used as tool
    * ODSC Europe 2023
        * in prep
    * EuroPython - speaker opportunity
        * KR would volunteer as backup
        * FK has already contacted Benedikt, Anirban, Sagar for interest (tbd)
    * applications (various)
        * MR - pycons?
        * FK - pydata prague is substream of pycon
        * MR - pycon sweden in Nov?
            * action MR - check process, requirements, topic
            * databricks have "ai summit", in US, keep on radar?

7. Ugo - community outreach

    * presentation of short-term and mid-term plan
    * discussion of proposal
        * see internal voting thread

8. governance working group
    * JS - governance model - wikimedia update
    * next steps
        * JS proposes drafting statute for German non-profit
        * template then setup
        * all agreed that this is great next step
        * JS to drive

9. reserved item (MR)

* KR reserved action (moved here)

10. AOB
