# sktime community meeting notes 2023-10-17

**Date:** 
17/10/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, JS, MR, KR, BH, JB, UO

**Minuting:** MR

**Moderator**: JS


## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication draft
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action KR: put this up for voting, write final form


    * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server
        * done

    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Alexandra Amidon
            * answer received
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI

    * async discussion on election provisions - time boxed close out
        * shared via hackmd in private discord
        * https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1084417014166212618/1144418618973638678
            * discord message link in private channel (accessible only to council)

    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)

   
4. FYI - treasurer nominations and next steps
    * 1 nomination received
    * should start vote

5. Reserved item

6. conference planning update
    * pydata NY
    * pydata global
    * any other

7. close-out discussion election provisions

8. FK - FYI - hacktoberfest

9. AOB


## Minutes

1. Review of agenda

* Added reserved item
* Changed treasurer to FYI

2. Review of minutes

* FK, MR, JB ok with previous minutes

3. Review of actions

    * delayed publication draft
        * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
        * action KR: put this up for voting, write final form
            * KR: limited time, asks for taking this
            * MR: will take this
        * action MR: take the action instead 

    * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server
        * done

    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Alexandra Amidon (AA)
            * answer received
        * Joanna Lenczuk (JL)
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
        * FK: UO and AA working together on this, still no PR, still in progress so track to next meeting
            * Addendum to above: AA has not reached out, above was for JL
        * UO joined later, we retake point: course & material has been delayed due to higher load on work. Will work on this moving forward - some progress but still track
    * async discussion on election provisions - time boxed close out
        * shared via hackmd in private discord
        * https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1084417014166212618/1144418618973638678
            * discord message link in private channel (accessible only to council)
        * FK: timeboxes but little engagement, will be discussed in individual point
    * action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week) - not done, track
   
4. FYI - treasurer nominations and next steps
    * 1 nomination received
    * should start vote
    * FYI - waiting on 6 days to finish

5. Reserved item

6. conference planning update
    * pydata NY
        * FK: Accepted, working on material
    * pydata global
        * FK: Applied, waiting
    * any other
        * FK: maybe not focus on pydata - look to other industrial, academic
    * JS: calendar for meeting and events (conferences)
    * FK: working now (but for contributors)
    * action to track: idea of internal calendar

7. close-out discussion election provisions
    * Covered

8. FK - FYI - hacktoberfest
    * FK: added label bc contributors wanted this towards the event metrics. Seems to be opt in this year

9. AOB
