
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-08-15

**Date:** 
15/08/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, JB, BH

**Minuting:** FK

**Moderator**: JB


## Agenda

0. FK - meeting schedule

* 4pm UTC every 2 weeks convenient?
* do we need a longer summer break?

1. Review of agenda

2. FK - What to do with admin backlogs?
* minute approval
* backlog of actions

3. Go through actions with those present (where applicable)


4. incoming collaboration requests, policy

5. conferences - Amsterdam, Prague

6. governance topics

* treasurer, OCE (FK, MR, JB)
* statutes next steps
* election provisions & review

7. AOB


## Notes

0. FK - meeting schedule

* 4pm UTC every 2 weeks convenient?
    * JB thinks this is better
        * now less hectic compared to initial composition
    * FK: it is 4pm UTC, so selection bias in opinions
    * JB: possibly just a general summer hole
    * FK: JS, MR have personal matters to attend to
    * BH: Tue is ok, we should hear others; coucil members should have higher weight here
    * FK: had discord thread, at least replies there indicated it is more convenient for JS, MR

* JB suggested action: set up a poll on meeting time

* do we need a longer summer break?
    * FK: thinks we should have meetings, there is admin to do
    * as long as 2 or 3 people attend, work gets done
    * JB: people can select not to attend, go on summer break or disengage - that's fair
    * important to keep an admin/work thread going, feels cadence is important for continuity
    * -> decision, keep
    * JB: thread in council channel?
        * FK: there already is a thread (July 28)
        * based on discussion, would conclude that there is assumption that meetings continue
        * JB: can comment in that thread


1. Review of agenda

agenda agreed

2. What to do with admin backlogs?

* minute approval
* backlog of actions

JB: backlogs due to spaser attendance in summer holidays
JB: at work uses GitHub/Kanban - should we track todos on GitHub project

* FK: good idea, as amount of "tickets" has increased
* JB: feels task org is not great to do on discord. Nested threads are confusing, proposal to move to GitHub projects
* FK: voluteers to move tickets to existing board
* JB: what repo?
    * FK: community-org repo for issues, general project board for kanban?
* JB: should also ask others if comfortable with GitHub
* FK: could already copy/move to show how it would look like
* JB: suggested action - decision async on moving non-reserved action tracking from discord to GitHub.


FK re minutes:
* 4 sets of minutes are not fully appoved yet since late June (due to non-quorate meetings and lack of async reaction)
* proposed action: put list of minutes with links on community council channel for final comments, defaults to approval by Aug 22

action FK: post links to minutes

3. Go through actions with those present (where applicable)

    * reminder - various outstanding reviews
        * minutes (see above)
            * all review and confirm or request add/change
            * just discussed - timeboxed confirmation
        * treasurer provisions
            * all review and comment
            * done - decision was to accept MR proposal
        * statutes
            * gov working group review and contribute, all invited
            * no input in last 2 weeks, will revisit below
        * draft linkedin re vision - see social media drafts
            * done - drafted and sent
        * content from UO mail, forecasting notion - try do within 1-2 week (end of July) but not hard DL
            * all review and contribute
            * done - input received by FK, thread on next steps
        * KR, JB - input on proposals for data set hosting
            * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4754
            * done - both gave input
        * delayed publication draft
            * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56
            * not done, track

    * various action tracking (no immediate action)

        * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * track & highlight at community sprint

        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
                * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
            * in preparation for governance meeting July 10
            * FK tries to fill in gaps in provisions till Monday
            * track, keep open
        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform
            * track until reply
        
    * actions re conferences
        * action FK: one more linkedin post re europython
        * done - europython has happened

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: easypoll for internal votes
            * blocker: unclear how to read out results (person other than who set up vote)
            * JB has contacted easypoll support
            * track
            * solved - reply received
            * action: wrap up, add to Jana issue https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        + action FK: repeat post registration link
        + done - repeat posted, an is on doc landing page

    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Alexandra Amidon
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
        * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
            * wait and track

    * action MR: follow up on fugue collaboration
        * not done - perhaps best to wait for community roadmap
        * FK will follow up, mention roadmap
            * not done, do

4. incoming collaboration requests, policy

    * FK: there could be (and have been) different types
        * request for consultancy with an expert
            * potential for conflict of interest 
        * charitable contribution
            * may come with expectation of working on specific topics or bugs
            * so may be hybrid with contract work
        * academic collaboration, research grants
        * request for co-branding, public messaging etc

    * JB opinion:
        * important to have separation of duties
        * important to maintain charitable principle, neutrality
        * need to be a solid degree of transparency
        * we need to think about commercial and charitable options separately, two sets of policies to think about
    * JB: not immediately clear about how inquiries come about?
        * FK: in experience, just arise at random - companies (or academics) start using sktime, have specific user needs - typical "user" type request, value is generated from use of sktime
        * FK: there's also a minority - but important cases to think about - where contact is "by design", aimed at "exploitation" of brand, notoriety, based on cost/benefit calculation, typically not from users but more "investor" type request (can be veiled)
        * typically, someone approaches one developer over direct message
            * rarer: emails to official address, public discord message
    * JB: first case seems very beneficial, e.g., for use requests
        * second case could be problematic. may compromise vision
        * might consider staying away from "2nd case" entirely, think about a protocol for first case (transparency, how to help, etc)
        * FK: tends to agree
        * BH: agreeing with JB thoughts
    * BH: what about the case of consultancy - asked to implement algorithm, or asked to help with deployment
        * feels this should be made transparent by core developers
        * FK: agrees, this is potential conflict of interest
        * JB: policy suggested - approached with commercial interest should be transparent at least internally
            * FK: intransparency is also code of conduct relevant - current CoC requires transparency and fair resource allocation
                * JB: yes, could be CoC violation if this is not disclosed
        * BH: wanted to go a step further, transparency is only "basis requirement"
            * BH: would prefer stronger requirement of approval by CC
            * FK: what is the scope that requires approval?
            * BH: contractual agreement or informal agreement with exchange of benefits, to make changes to sktime, where role holder is one of the parties
            * FK: would second such a proposal (agree)
            * JB: this is stricter than what had suggested, but would have no problem if can be administrated
        * FK: this is also legally relevant - incorporated as collective (charity) for OCE
            * charity status requires "qualitatively" purpose being charitable
    * JB - suggest to put a policy proposal forward as a GitHub issue on community-org.
    * action JB, BH to start this.

5. conferences - Amsterdam, Prague

* BH - needs couple days to decide (Fri or next week)
* FK - should get back to pycon Prague soon
* planing based on decision of BH (w/c Aug 21)

6. governance topics

* treasurer, OCE (FK, MR, JB)
    * JB volunteers as treasurer candidate

moved to next meeting

* statutes next steps
* election provisions & review

7. AOB
* FK: dataset hosting
    * need mirrors due to frequent fails of upstream data hosters
    * dataset downloaders seem rarely used though
    * suggestions in issue vary; GH LFS is ready to go
    * BH: if rarely used, can go with GH LFS
    * FK: ok, will try to implement for now - lowest tier has low cost, will cover from personal funds for 1Y
