# sktime community meeting notes

**Date:** 
17/03/2023, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** Franz Kiraly, Kiril Ralinovski, Marc Rovira, Jana Schmidberger; Markus Loning (for points 1-3 in revised agenda in notes, Markus/pypi; then left)

Minuting: FK

**Location:** [`sktime` discord](https://discord.com/invite/54ACzaFsn7)

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/GQJy87zYQH2wljr5pQv4Jg)


## Agenda

1. Review of agenda points

2. Review of minutes 2023-03-10

3. quick status review transition council: update, membership, feedback


4. admin points

    4.1 need to restart admin - ways of working
    4.2 summer internships: interviews, funding; mentoring programme
    4.3 social media posts - ways of working (async approve/draft)
    4.4 presence at conferences, tutoring

    * pydata Berlin 2023 - volunteering opportunity
    * pydata Seattle 2023 (skbase) - plan, travel funds
    * pydata London 2023 applications - co-presenters
    * OSDC Europe 2023 - tutors/co-presenters

5. governance discussion continued



## Notes

1. Review of agenda points

* Markus is joining, table that first


2. Review of minutes 2023-03-10


https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230310-meeting.md


3. Markus/pypi

ML: does not feel comforable attending

wants to clarify few things

ML: good that community is rebuilding

ML appreciates that FK takes step back from pypi discussion

this will simplify things going forward

ML: was confused about letter, does not align with ML's interpretation of community input

ML already organised community consultation, that was the chance to put forward feedback. Letter is unnecessary

ML: had messaged FK about decision and would like to share decision with FK before publishing it to give opportunity to comment

(FK comment post-meeting: true, but the email did not include any particulars of the decision. FK responded by pointing to the council and public space)

KR: prefers that we communicate here in the open

sorry if there was confusion, all passionate on the project

MR: community letter idea was to aggregate feelings of the community, see the comments in the "deprecation" issue

wanted to put together a common message, an to open a space for discussion

ML: felt putting pressure on the decision

would have been easy to reach out personally, individuals should have reached out in private

ML: has been in private discussions, feels the opinion in the open letter is not shared by some

ML: in order to find a separate solution, sktime need to go back to the other team

ML: wants to share the decision before making it public, to make changes to the formulation

ML: does not want to share the decision publicly, this is a public channel. Happy to share this personally with council members, but only if it is not being publicly shared.

ML: things are toxic and personal, so does not want to do this in public.

ML: if council does not want to discuss in private first, ML will just publich the decision publicly.

KR: can you clarify, do you want to share the decision now in the public forum or not? Is it already made?

ML: said before he wants to share the decision only in private, not in public. I only want to share the decision in private with some people on the council, discuss, finalize details.

MR: this is an open, transparent council, things should be shared here (public forum) and not in private

ML: then please send a private channel to share the decision, email or invite to private channel or similar

(FK note: this confusing response is in direct contradiction to MR's request to share in public, seemingly ignoring it)

KR: could provide council member emails in-principle

MR: there was going to be a council email, we are still at the beginning of admin.

ML: will then send an email that he sent to FK. Does not want to reply in public.

MR: to clarify, he has aligned on the decision in private with others? This would not be in line with what we heard. We (sktime) want to keep the discourse open and transparent, and anyone in the open space were onboard with the letter. The letter also aligns with the general community opinion in the deprecation issue. Can we clarify whether what you are referring to are conversations with sktime users and contributors? Or is it the splinter group.

ML: thinks there were users with a less clear position on this. Had private discussions with them, not in the open. Now understands that the letter was meant to summarize the community discussions.

MR: the letter is meant as a space for open discussion. Will provide email and discuss internally how to proceed. Any other questions about this issue to discuss?

ML: no

(point concluded)

action: summarize the above (few lines) and make decision points clear to rest of council who are not here today


4. quick status review transition council: update, membership, feedback

* requirement from Ryan to clarify status of council as transitional -> added to docs in "team" page, kindly review
* Sagar Mishra joined (via invitation)


5. admin points

    4.1 need to restart admin - ways of working

    4.2 summer internships: interviews, funding; mentoring programme

    * time horizon for announcements are next weeks
    * selection panels should take place late Apr/early May
    * action FK to share process documents
    * ask for volunteers

    4.3 social media posts - ways of working (async approve/draft)
        * deferred to next time

    4.4 presence at conferences, tutoring

    * pydata Berlin 2023 - volunteering opportunity
        * for helping out with the conference (no presentation)
            * e.g., bouncer, registration, setup, moderation jobs
            * no pay but free entry
            * deadline to reply is today (March 17)
            * FK correction (Mar 18) - deadline is actually Mar 19
        * KR would be interested
        * action FK: notify pydata Berlin
    * pydata Seattle 2023 (skbase) - plan, travel funds
        * workshop accepted on skbase. FK, Ryan and tentatively Sagar Mishra (contributors to base) will travel
        * Sagar Mishra (achieveordie) needs travel funding
            * reason: contributed persistence and other base features
            * would be great to support early career contributor (important networking opportunity, presentation opportunity)
        * usually we would apply to NumFOCUS or use research grant funds, but that's not an option (due to the splinter group controlling some money and NumFOCUS no longer affiliated)
        * FK suggestion for expense - reimbursement via sktime open collective, max total of 2.500 GBP
        * FK will donate at least twice the amount to sktime from personal funds (irrespective of decision taken here)
        * usual procedure (decided to adopt for now): proposed in first council meeting (above), decision in second council meeting and async round until then; comes into effect when minutes of decision are confirmed in 3rd meeting, all meetings at least 1 calendar week apart
        * please note conflict of interest - Sagar Mishra is a member of this council (as per point 4) and must recuse himself
    * pydata London 2023 applications - co-presenters
        * opportunity to join as co-presenters
        * submitted 2 workshops: probabilistic forecasting; time series distances, pairwise transformers, panel tasks
        * action all: volunteering opportunity
    * OSDC Europe 2023 - tutors/co-presenters
        * accepted for half day workshop at ODSC Europe 2023
        * need tutors and co-presenters for hands-on workshop
        * action all: volunteering opportunity

6. governance discussion continued

    * deferred to Mar 24 due to lack of time
