
# sktime community meeting notes 2024-06-11

**Date:** 
11/06/2024, 4:30pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, KR, MR, BH, UO, SG (from 5pm)

**Minuting:** MR

**Moderator:** KR

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

* minutes of May 28 lost?
    * hackmd was empty
    * last revertable state was agenda without minutes
    * FK added based on memory
    * for review until June 25

3. Review of actions

* action KR: send email to distance university, check if sktime session are feasible - track for next time
    * contact initiated, next steps follow - track

* action FK - elections comms pack
    * FK: track - busy with gsoc, but this is prio after onboarding
    * onboarding still ongoing (end of May), track

* action UO: update financial budgets and statements and send to CC for review
    * done, here, please review prior to publication - [CC channel link](https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1084417014166212618/1240360027899035648)

* action MR: open thread on fundraising brainstorm

* action on all: think about people that could be invited for talk in meetup (research talk, present package, etc)

* action FK: funding for dev days


4. scheduling

- internal social - repeat?
- roadmap planning 2024-2025 - June 21 still good?


5. FK - status update GSoC, mentoring


6. FK - updates on conferences, workshops

    * accepted: pycon PL (workshop, intro) -> FK
    * accepted: pydata Paris (talk: FM) -> Benedikt (needs to check with MB), possibly FK
    * submitted: pycon IN (mentees: Felix, Pranav)


7. FK, SG - fundraising updates (reserved)


8. AOB


## Minutes


1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

* minutes of May 28 lost?
    * hackmd was empty
    * last revertable state was agenda without minutes
    * FK added based on memory
    * for review until June 25
    * Action UO, MR to review

3. Review of actions

* action KR: send email to distance university, check if sktime session are feasible - track for next time
    * contact initiated, next steps follow - track
    * KR: university did come back but had doubts on how to  structure - wanted to include other dpts/colleagues | KR replied ok to this - waiting for next reply - track

* action FK - elections comms pack
    * FK: track - busy with gsoc, but this is prio after onboarding
    * onboarding still ongoing (end of May), track
    * FK: should be completed today and will share for review - timelines should be out soon but 1 mo buffer before actual activities.

* action UO: update financial budgets and statements and send to CC for review
    * done, here, please review prior to publication - [CC channel link](https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1084417014166212618/1240360027899035648)
    * action on all: still in review period

* action MR: open thread on fundraising brainstorm
    * MR: will close today

* action on all: think about people that could be invited for talk in meetup (research talk, present package, etc)
    * KR: contact with tech incubator in Rome where there is an option to co-present - will start a thread on this
    * MR: contacted Ivan

* action FK: funding for dev days
    * FK: not done, track


4. scheduling

- internal social - repeat?
    * FK: June 3rd - well recieved but not all atended and one FK and UO attended. 
    * FK: June 21 8 UTC (early) as option? See below - conclusion is not social on 21st
- roadmap planning 2024-2025 - June 21 still good?
    * Round table for availability:
        * BH: will not be there but is ok with not rescheduling as wants mentees to be involved and this is a good slot for them
        * FK: will have time on the full day
        * KR: will be able to attend and is ok with not rescheduling
        * MR: hard but not impossible to attend due to still being working hours
        * UO: similar to MR, roadmap happens in working hours but will be able to at least attend partially
    * Conclusion is keep roadmap planning but do not have social

5. FK - status update GSoC, mentoring
    * FK: Menteed onboarded and started to code, some churn but some newcommers have filled the slots - all going well
    * FK: admin email related to evaluations, ~3 weeks time

6. FK - updates on conferences, workshops

    * accepted: pycon PL (workshop, intro) -> FK
        * FK: planning to travel to PL
        * KR: dates? 
        * FK: Aug 29 - Sept 1
        * FK: should think of backup or copresenter
        * KR: maybe? Track
        * BH: Does this intersect with euroscipy?
        * FK: Yes! Also, both in Poland
        * BH: could be backup due to being in Berlin during that time if it is needed
        * FK, KR: Maybe not needed but good b/c of unforseen issues (sickness) and how exhaustive a workshop can be
    * accepted: pydata Paris (talk: FM) -> Benedikt (needs to check with MB), possibly FK
        * FK: talk accepted (foundation models topic)
        * BH: needs to check with employer
        * FK: dates Sept 25 - 26
        * FK: talk official confirmed after email lost and got back from orgs
    * submitted: pycon IN (mentees: Felix, Pranav)
        * FK: potentially be able to go if talk accepted, will
    * FK - Others for which we are waiting: forecasting for social good, ODSC, Northampton
    * FK: euroscipy dates Aug 26 - 30 (in Poland)

7. FK, SG - fundraising updates (reserved)


8. AOB
