# sktime community meeting notes 2024-04-09

**Date:** 
09/04/2024, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** MR, KR, FK, JS

**Minuting:** MR

**Moderator:** FK

## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes
* minutes from Feb 28 5pm meeting continuation missing?

3. Review of actions

Tracking

* action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
    * FK: suggests pausing for now - track
* action KR: send email to distance university, check if sktime session are feasible - track for next time
    * KR: spoke to head at Berlin, sounded excited about colab; wanted to even go more national; send email after talk but have not heard back; will call again soon - track
* action Jana - open vote on automatic approval of minutes in decision channel

* action FK - meet-up slot poll (re time zone)
    * done, current slot got most votes, so nothing changes
* reserved action

4. FK - update on GSoC

    * large contributor influx
        * +400 on discord in 2 months
        * increased PR review load
    * interviews underway, update on selection process
    * short-term events (meet-up schedule, intro to contrib)

5. FK - summer programme planning

    * meet-ups - more pre-planning agendas, presentations?
        * some volunteers from events poll
        * FK: inviting speakers
    * summer developer sprint planning
    * workstream onboarding events, project management
    * socials

6. update from elections working group meeting

    * discussing timelines

7. reserved items


8. FK - update on funding, fundraising

    * current applications
    * discussing next steps?

9. financial document drafts by UO - next steps
    * budget sheet template
    * management report template

10. AOB

## Minutes

1. Review of agenda
    - MR: bump elections before fundraising

2. Review of minutes
* minutes from Feb 28 5pm meeting continuation missing?
    * FK: UO, KR attended the carried-over session, are there meeting notes?
    * KR: maybe - need to check
    * action KR, UO: check if you have local version of meeting, if will be considered not lost

3. Review of actions

Tracking

* action FK re legal review prepare contact draft and share internally (also end of this week)
    * FK: suggests pausing for now - track
    * FK: suggests to drop due to long pause 
    * KR, JS: agree, action is dropped
* action KR: send email to distance university, check if sktime session are feasible - track for next time
    * contact initiated, next steps follow - track
* action ~~Jana~~ FK- open vote on automatic approval of minutes in decision channel
    * JS: suggest shifting action due to permissions requirements
    * FK: takes action
* action FK - meet-up slot poll (re time zone)
    * done, current slot got most votes, so nothing changes
    * MR asks if current time was defined so voters were "primed" to select the current time, FK shows the current date undiscoled so no
    * FK: suggest repeating due to large influx, MR agrees
    * action FK: action on repeating the poll 
* reserved action

4. FK - update on GSoC
    * large contributor influx
        * +400 on discord in 2 months
        * increased PR review load
        * FK: since end of Feb (announcement of GSOC acceptance) large inflow in discord & PRs in Github. PR are from beginners, which require more time for supervision
    * interviews underway, update on selection process
        * FK: April 2 was DL for proposal submission - April 24 is DL for ranking to google
        * FK: short on interviewers at the moment and co-mentors are appreciated
        * FK: interviews in April 15-16
        * KR, MR can attend as interviewers
        * FK will send emailsnd
    * short-term events (meet-up schedule, intro to contrib)
         * FK: 3 works strems 5 people on each - requires some PM, particularly at the beginning

5. FK - summer programme planning

    * meet-ups - more pre-planning agendas, presentations?
        * some volunteers from events poll
        * FK: inviting speakers
        * FK: proposals to host or speak on meetups is appreciated
        * FK: low number of female respondants to forms, probably good idea to highlight women leading OS
    * summer developer sprint planning
    * workstream onboarding events, project management
    * socials
        * FK: proposal for social, structure or unstructures?
        * MR, JS agree on unstructured
        * FK: when?
        * All agree in 3 weeks due to interviews beginning next week

9. update from elections working group meeting
    * discussing timelines
        * FK: converged on process, ready to run elections at the moments. Repo `elections` is up and everyone should have access. Conclude interview process first (end of April). Mid May is good aim. 
        * FK: good engagement process for tech side, but there is a gap for how to get people engaged in community tasks. Follow the tech model? Ideas welcome
        * FK: more hands on process but also as we are not incorporated it is not crucial that all goes 100% well. We should adhere to structure but it will be a test run
        * actions FK: send messages comms pack and docs about procedure

7. reserved items


6. FK - update on funding, fundraising

    * current applications
    * discussing next steps?

8. financial document drafts by UO - next steps
    * budget sheet template
    * management report template

10. AOB
