
# sktime community meeting notes 2024-09-03

**Date:** 
03/09/2024, 4:45pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, KR, UO, MR

**Minuting:** MR, FK (in places where MR dropped out due to connection probs)

**Moderator:** FK



## Agenda

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

* action KR: send email to distance university, check if sktime session are feasible - track for next time
    * contact initiated, next steps follow - track

* action FK - elections comms pack
    * sent out
    * next stage: candidate pack

* action UO: update financial budgets and statements and send to CC for review
    * Action UO: add legal expenses
    * done, here, please review prior to publication - [CC channel link](https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1240360027899035648/1265304465179938829)
    * FK: posted updated budget
    * Action on all: review current version

* action on all: think about people that could be invited for talk in meetup (research talk, present package, etc)
    * ongoing - Sep, Oct slots
 
* action FK: setting up events calendar
    * FK: discord calendar set but another calendar (google etc) should be also made. Linkedin and discord calendar can be substribed to now.
    * still open - gmail

* action FK: funding for dev days
    * FK: PSF have not come back since July 2nd. Visa related timelines are starting to get complicated, should be closed in ~week or people will not be able to travel.
    * still open - reach out to them again


4. financials
  * handling incoming payments
    * scipy 2024
    * PSF
    * ODSC
  * publishing the budget 

5. update on conferences
    * EuroSciPy, pycon PL, ODSC
    * ODSC blogpost

6. reserved items

7. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of agenda

2. Review of minutes

3. Review of actions

* action KR: send email to distance university, check if sktime session are feasible - track for next time
    * contact initiated, next steps follow - track
    * KR: followed up: uni contact will talk to higher-ups, still tracking

* action FK - elections comms pack
    * sent out
    * next stage: candidate pack
    * FK: open question: where & how & when to publish candidate statements?

* action UO: update financial budgets and statements and send to CC for review
    * Action UO: add legal expenses
    * done, here, please review prior to publication - [CC channel link](https://discord.com/channels/1075852648688930887/1240360027899035648/1265304465179938829)
    * FK: posted updated budget
    * Action on all: review current version
        * Done

* action on all: think about people that could be invited for talk in meetup (research talk, present package, etc)
    * ongoing - Sep, Oct slots
        * Sep 13 - 
        * Sep 20 - Simon Blanke, hyperactive
        * Oct 4 - Martin Tveten, skchange
    * Continue to track 
 
* action FK: setting up events calendar
    * FK: discord calendar set but another calendar (google etc) should be also made. Linkedin and discord calendar can be substribed to now.
    * still open - gmail
    * not done, track

* action FK: funding for dev days
    * FK: PSF have not come back since July 2nd. Visa related timelines are starting to get complicated, should be closed in ~week or people will not be able to travel.
    * still open - reach out to them again
    * update: was approved late July, ran call, and received funds via Open Collective (5000 USD) - but too late as people were unable to get visa. Only small fraction of what was committed was used. But application already mentioned visa timelines, so we can use the funds later for another community meetup
    * action: need to summarize back to them via accountability email
    * FK needs to do this since ran the call and funding admin - write email and show council for review
    * MR: is deferring to next year ok?
    * FK: should be, but need to communicate with them


4. financials
  * handling incoming payments
    * scipy 2024
        * FK: problem with filling out tax forms, should be filled by OCE. OCE required alt contract to fill in forms; on short notice it was not accepted. Sankalp filled it and funds will be splitted 1/2, which he will transfer as donation. Waiting to recieve this half as donation to OCE.
        * Action FK: forward emails on the above
    * PSF
        * FK: Donated and recieved via OCE, as per point above we need to fill in acountability report (not all was spent)
    * ODSC
        * FK: Payment depends on number of registrations, so payment is after the event.
  * Publishing the budget
      * MR: separate github repo?
      * FK: visibility is poorer and all docs are inside community-org so maybe should still be there?
      * MR: agree with higher visibility in community-org, UO agrees
      * action FK: publish budget to new folder in community-org repo

5. update on conferences
    * EuroSciPy, pycon PL, ODSC
    * ODSC blogpost

6. elections next steps
    * FK: Options
        * 1) PR/issue to elections repo in github
            * visibility can be modified but it will be there always so more open/transparent
            * async time alignment 
        * 2) Submit via Google Forms, then we compile and release
            * advantage to administratord of the process, give us advanced view of it. Responsability is on us to do this correctly
            * all published at the same time
    * decision: go with #1, FK, MR & UO agree
    

7. reserved items

8. AOB
