# Community Team Meeting #10

[<<<- Previous meeting's HackMD](https://hackmd.io/WeblEjEwQnyGujyB5KZzWQ)
[Next meeting's HackMD ->>>](https://hackmd.io/S-RmAF3xRMOGr6mMpGxDyw)

**:calendar:** Oct 11, 2021


### :wave: Attendees

- [name=Franz]
- [name=Tivadar]
- [name=Guzal]
- [name=]
- [name=]

### :pencil: Agenda


:::info

**1. Welcome - 5 min**

**2. Discussion session - 20 min**

**3. Wrap-up, to-do next - 5 min**
:::

### :construction: Reference links
*relevant documents, e.g. other meeting's summary, link to a social event in question, etc.*

- [Roadmap planning](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/meetups/previous_meetings/20210924-roadmap-planning.md)



:mega: Discussion
---
1. **Restructuring Slack space**
- [x] Move conversations from private **#core-developers channel to the public #contributors** channel. Leave #core-developers channel for formal discussion, only affecting core-developers, e.g., the core developer vote. Upvote from Martin, Franz, Guzal 
- [x] Make **#community-team** channel public - keep it private just move public conversations to public channels

2. **Marketing Funnel - advice from Tivadar**
    - LinkedIn, Twitter - reachout. The bigger the reach -  the more potential users we can attract
    - Tutorials, blogposts - get further interest
    - 3rd level - people become interested so that they join the community
    - Make content in different forms for different platforms, e.g. not just repost a blogpost to Twitter - make a tweet. Specific content for each platform.
        - Threads that explain things clearly for Twitter - summarise blogpost in a chain of Tweets. Give value right away.
    - Make sure that you are present in the life and work of audience - regularly produce good content, build connections (this way people more likely to actually come to the event not only sign up and not show up).
    - Posts on subjects that are fundamental in the topic so that when this is collected create a "textbook" on time series
    - Collect and curate the content written by students already - with their permission.
    - Reuse content as much as possible! (it's ok to promote a blogpost from 2 years ago) Consider the value it provides - if the value is great then it's no problem.
    - One blog post per week or per two weeks
    - Not necessarily hardcore tech content - like the best learning platforms/learning courses list sth like that, this can pop up sparringly
    - Topic: "Different learning tasks related to time series" 
    
**To-do**
    1. Collect EVERY blogpost that is related to sktime
    2. Create a platform on hashnode and start reposting on hashnode
    3. Promote the posts on sktime's social media
    @GuzalBulatova @fkiraly
   


3. **Question 3**
    - ...
    - ...


:question: Next meeting & planning
---
### date: October 25, 6 pm UK time

### TO-DO before next meeting:
- [name=Everyone] ...
- [name=] ...

