# sktime CC meeting notes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/y1OcL1QMQLiZjRwVB0t0RQ)

**Date:** 
8/11/2022, 5:00pm UTC

**Attendees:**  Franz, Guzal, Martin

Minuting: Franz

**Location:** `sktime` discord

[governance / community council channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875425974345416734)

## Agenda

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/d026a9420d61a89993cd9d1794c4e2441cf140de/community_council/previous_meetings)

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions via project board
    - https://github.com/orgs/sktime/projects/1
    - actions on dev days from last time:
        * MP - publicizing dev days, ongoing
        * MP - funding - communicating with Tony
    - testimonials

3. updates:
    * pydata
    * numfocus

4. standing item: fall dev sprint updates (Mirae Parker)

5. GB: responsibilities in the CC assignment

6. numba and statsmodels soft dep
    * numba got 4 yes, 6 no for soft dep, no 2/3
    * goes to phase 3

7. FK, MW: various CoC PR discussion, esp resource allocation/decision making

8. AOB


## Notes

1. Review of [last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/d026a9420d61a89993cd9d1794c4e2441cf140de/community_council/previous_meetings/20221025-meeting.md)
    - issue with publishing individuals´ affiliations or contacts
    - last time, some people were upset on publishing name/affiliation information without consent
    - decided: remove block with names and companies, use internal/reserved minutes, track internally
    - action MW - remove, done
    - changed minutes agreed

2. Review of actions from last meeting and other outstanding or ongoing actions via project board
    - https://github.com/orgs/sktime/projects/1
    - actions on dev days from last time:
        * MP - publicizing dev days, ongoing
        * MP - funding - communicating with Tony
    - testimonials

3. updates:
    * pydata
        * presentation has been accepted! :tada: 
        * will have meetings on Fridays with submitter team (Franz, Martin, Mirae, Benedikt), preparing
        * preparing social media ongoing
    * numfocus
        * submitted, still under review

4. standing item: fall dev sprint updates (Mirae Parker)
    * Mirae not here today
    * dev days going ahead tomorrow, Mirae organizing, Franz deputizing; Martin in case of emergency (2nd deputy)
        * Guzal will be there on Nov 9
    * action all: please review the documentation issue, add by tomorrow
        * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/3686

5. GB: responsibilities in the CC assignment
    - option a - rotate
    - option b - divide the responsibility areas
    - GB: prefers option b due to capability
    - FK: prefers option a for transparency and fairness
    - MW: prefers option b
    - MW: what would be responsibility areas?
    - FK examples:
        - release management
        - sending response emails after agreement/alignment form info at sktime -> Guzal
        - setting up votes if necessary, communicating outcomes -> Guzal
    - MW happy to join as release manager for now (start doing together)
    - decision: MW joins release mgmt team, Guzal keeps comms, revisit potentially later
  

6. numba and statsmodels soft dep
    * didn´t vote on statsmodels, that was not controversial
        * still am major dep change
        * could make it a soft dep tomorrow (all isolated)
        * action Martin: set up a vote on statsmodels
            * please put timebox on it
    * numba got 4 yes, 6 no for soft dep, no 2/3
        * goes to phase 3
        * numba is more problematic to isolate due to decorators
        * would be medium sized chunk of work
        * postpone decision - MW and GB gather more information, revisit
        * also wait for outcome of statsmodels vote, revisit

7. FK, MW: various CoC PR discussion, esp resource allocation/decision making

* removal of lazy consensus
    * FK: against doing this since can lead to stalling, should rather add provisions on informing CC of such PR or "needs to be approved by" type requirements
    * formally, disagreement, so need to do phase 2 (core dev vote) and possibly phase 3
    * FK had earlier PR on lazy consensus: https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/3650
    * FK opened alternative PR: https://github.com/sktime/sktime/pull/3711
    * action MW, GB: please review and reply
    * FK: we also need to have phase 2 vote due to disagreement
        * vote should be on PR
    * MW: requirement of STEP, what does that mean, did we ever do that
    * FK: STEP can be description on the PR! But the PR header did not properly describe the content or changes.
        * can´t call a PR with substantial change a "clarification"
    * MW: requiring STEP is too much control
    * FK: transparency is reduced if content is not summarized properly. Summary should not "lie", and 5 day requirement for discussion before vote makes sense.
    * GB: what is current procedure?
    * FK explains
    * decision: MW, GB to review and reply on FK PRs. Will proceed to phase 2 vote after this review.
* decision making on resource allocation
    * FK: MW has a conflict of interest with recent requests for consultancy to sktime
    * recent discussion: MW prefers to deal with these requests via his own company
    * FK would like to present these requests to the community, e.g., in a study group or as opportunities communicated
    * therefore FK thinks MW has a conflict of interest and should recuse himself, in particular not vote down or block the "decision making" CoC update
    * MW: does not think he has a conflict of interest, everyone could have reacted to the request of consultancy (on discord)
    * FK: but MW is CC member and has a responsibility to the community, to not use up all opportunities by himself
    * MW: does not think he has that responsibility
    * MW: thinks FK merged the PR against the rules
    * FK: PR was open since July with most of the substance, more recent changes were minor clarifications and formatting
    * MW: formally, time after last commit counts
    * GB: concurs, no PR should be merged without approval
    * FK: CoC committee is accountable for CoC
    * MW: no, CC is accountable for CoC
    * FK: CoC (Martin) has conflict of interest
    * MW: FK also has conflict of interest through GfK
    * FK: yes, but proposed PR does not further that conflict of interes
    * FK: MW blocking the PR that says opportunities need to further charitable purpose of sktime furthers MW´s conflict of interest (taking the consultancy opportunities for himself)
    * FK: this is similar to city officials who are forbidden to bid on construction contracts. Having a role that implies responsibility for a community and than funnelling opportunities to oneself is a form of corruption.
    * [further heated discussion]
    * GB: let´s end the meeting
    * [MW, GB log off]

8. AOB
skipped

