# Community Team Meeting #14

[<<<- Previous meeting's HackMD](https://hackmd.io/s6LFlZjSTDSKQwuZyvvT-g)
[Next meeting's HackMD ->>>]()

**:calendar:** Jan 28, 2022

### :wave: Attendees

- [name=Franz]
- [name=Guzal]
- [name=Lovkush] (5 mins later)

### :pencil: Agenda

1. **Mentoring**

2. **New YouTube video**

3. **policies on giving talks to companies**

4. **Tutorial at UCL**



### :construction: Reference links
*relevant documents, e.g. other meeting's summary, link to a social event in question, etc.*



:mega: Discussion
---
1. **Mentoring**
    - Application start Feb 7th
    - Deadline for applications is Feb 21st
    - Action FK, GB, LA: think about topic propositions
        - Topic proposition: Re-factor the mini-rocket and rocket classifiers (now is one giant piece of code)
    - FK hoping to cover 2 or 3 mentors (maybe with some last minute pulling people in)

2. **New YouTube video**
    -  advertise it over social media channels. twitter, linkedin, etc.
    -  add it to README?
    -  markus has access to sktime linkedin account?


3. **Policies on giving talks to companies**
    - FK. how should we respond to individual who reached out to us to give a talk to their company?
    - FK. e.g. are there conflict of interest issues? risk somebody could use this chance to 'sell' or 'advertise' something other than sktime.
    - LA and GB. could ask person to show their presentation before hand and any possible conflicts of itnerest?
    - formally: disclaimer of role in talk (sktime only); lazy preapproval (all content shared with core dev channel in advance, Cc can intervene but usually won´t)
    - FK: needs approval by CC; probably should be part of policies
    - ACTION for somebody: write up policy, get it approved formally.

4. **Tutorial at UCL**
    - FK. this is low priority.
    - ACTION FK  contaact anthony
  

:question: Next meeting & planning
---
### date: Feb 4, 4 pm UK time

### TO-DO before next meeting:
- [name=Guzal] add past HackMDs to repository
- [name=all] come up with two-three topics for mentorship project
- [name=Guzal] advertise new YT video on Twitter and LinkedIn (make posts, ask Luca if he'd like to create thumbnail)
- ACTION for somebody: write up policy for giving talks about sktime, get it approved formally.
- [name=Franz] contact anthony