
# sktime community meeting notes 2023-07-28


**Date:** 
28/07/2023, 4:00pm UTC

**Attendees:** FK, JB, JS, Shoaib Khan (from 4:55), jpss95 (from 4:58)

**Minuting:** JS

**Moderator**: JB

[dev meet-up channel](https://discord.com/channels/723500657255907408/875422707523682335)

[link to minutes on hackmd](https://hackmd.io/LUsu_aLHSDWPg9ofJ3urzg)


## Agenda

1. Review of Agenda


2. Review of minutes 
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230623-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230630-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230707-meeting.md

* please review async (low attendance due to vacations)

3. Review of outstanding actions

    * reminder - various outstanding reviews
        * minutes (see above)
            * all review and confirm or request add/change
        * treasurer provisions
            * all review and comment
        * statutes
            * gov working group review and contribute, all invited
        * draft linkedin re vision - see social media drafts
        * content from UO mail, forecasting notion - try do within 1-2 week (end of July) but not hard DL
            * all review and contribute
        * KR, JB - input on proposals for data set hosting
            * https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4754
        * delayed publication draft
            * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56

    * various action tracking (no immediate action)

        * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * track & highlight at community sprint
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
                * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
            * in preparation for governance meeting July 10
            * FK tries to fill in gaps in provisions till Monday
            * track, keep open
        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform
            * track until reply
        
    * actions re conferences
        * action FK: one more linkedin post re europython

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: easypoll for internal votes
                * blocker: unclear how to read out results (person other than who set up vote)
                * JB has contacted easypoll support
                * track

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        + action FK: repeat post registration link


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Alexandra Amidon
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
        * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
            * wait and track

    * action MR: follow up on fugue collaboration
        * not done - perhaps best to wait for community roadmap
        * FK will follow up, mention roadmap



4. finances - follow-up
    * treasurer role
    * open collective pipeline admin
    * internship admin

5. conferences
  - europython, community sprint debrief
  - pydata Amsterdam, Prague

6. AOB



## Notes

1. Review of Agenda

Done, no points to add

2. Review of minutes 
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230623-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230630-meeting.md
    * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/blob/main/community_council/previous_meetings/20230707-meeting.md

* please review async (low attendance due to vacations)

3. Review of outstanding actions

    * reminder - various outstanding reviews
        * minutes (see above)
            * all review and confirm or request add/change
            * please review async
        * treasurer provisions
            * all review and comment
            * concluded with vote accepting MR proposal
            * time elapsed and only two votes, but vote was accepted last week -> noone spoke up against 
            * next step: find a treasurer, Franz wouldn't do it for power distribution reasons, maybe MR but he also has other roles; tbd with bigger group; get people to "apply"
                * JB: description of role and responsibilities? Yes, MR drafted it
                * find more people to give input, candidates: core dev or community council member -> interest and time
                * should we vote even if there is only one candidate? There should be an official vote, JS: there should be an official vote even if there is one member
                * JB: find a time for a vote -> tradeoff between finding a time and vacation time, nomination in two weeks and vote in four weeks
                * FK: self nomination in two weeks and extend it if necessary
                * Eligibility: mentioned in MR's proposal
            * **JB action: create an open thread for the self-nomination -> JB will take it over and put on Discord and Github issue on community org, self nomination via Github **
            * action MR: update provisions for gov doc
        * statutes
            * gov working group review and contribute, all invited
            * action FK (from gov group) - draft for voting provisions: in progress
            * proposal to contact a law firm -> it runs out on 30th
        * draft linkedin re vision - see social media drafts
            * FK: plan to send out today (got some approving comments but not much feedback): got reviewed, will be send out by FK
        * content from UO mail, forecasting notion - try do within 1-2 week (end of July) but not hard DL
            * all review and contribute
            * FK - left feedback in notion
            * UO not present, should have been send out by email
            * should have received invitation to notion from UO
        * KR, JB - input on proposals for data set hosting
            * JB: wrote in Github issue https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4754
            * FK update: now acute again, UEA is failing
            * FK met with some sktime developers to find permanent solution
            * may cost ca 50$ per year, but there's also no-cost solutions
            * requirement: download from URL
            * **Action JB: will write a proposal for Google Drive, sktime**
                * JS will be informed 
        * delayed publication draft
            * https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/56

    * various action tracking (no immediate action)

        * action JB - create github issue with Treasurer nomination, post link on Discord server

        * action MR - pycon Sweden, check process, requirements, topic
            * track & highlight at community sprint
        * action JS - open issue on voting technology to collect options https://github.com/sktime/community-org/issues/55
                * Wait for demo on easypoll before exploring
                * decision is conditional on easypoll action
        * action all - review draft statutes
            * track, keep open
        * UO: discussions with corise (https://corise.com/) learning platform
            * track until reply
        
    * actions re conferences
        * action FK: one more linkedin post re europython
        * done

    * actions re governance:
        * action JB: easypoll for internal votes
                * blocker: unclear how to read out results (person other than who set up vote)
                * JB has contacted easypoll support
                * track

    * action FK - user registration, voter registration message
        + action FK: repeat post registration link
        + done


    * Action UO: reach out to content creators to update code to recent main
        * Alexandra Amidon
        * Joanna Lenczuk
        * FK proposed to bring in to repo to test continuously
            * suggested action UO: PR to repo once notebook is done
            * action FK after that: review & integrate to CI
        * UO has reached out, but vacation/holiday time
            * wait and track

    * action MR: follow up on fugue collaboration
        * not done - perhaps best to wait for community roadmap
        * FK will follow up, mention roadmap



4. finances - follow-up
    * treasurer role
        * FK written update:
        * MR made two proposals, got accepted
        * next steps above
    * open collective pipeline admin
        * What is the role about? Charity and they can manage funds for projects like sktime, projects modelled as collectives; each collective should have two admins, various terms and conditions in administering the collective, you have duties and responsibilities; it is an account, laws applicable, treasurer like position
        * JB: difference between admin and treasurer? Admin's responsibility is towards open collective, work is similar, currently FK is admin but should be shared; there should be a vote yearly, there should be a protocol set up for roles, could be a Github repo as the place for nominations, maybe a polling channel because Discord can be difficult to keep track of 
    * internship admin
        * FK: finances -> FK will do the admin work, interns will raise an invoice, FK will share the template and intern will submit the invoice; someone should check the template, FK will share the invoice in CC channel


5. conferences
  - europython, community sprint debrief
      - FK: Sagar and FK couldn't join, virtual version it was low attendance, new contributors joined; there won't be a video or recording 
  - pydata Amsterdam, Prague
      - we got accepted with the same topic and it is on the same day, discussion -> maybe we should try to change the topic


6. AOB
* Update the calendar on Google or delete it
